Law No.159/198 
On Joint Stock Companies, Partnerships Limited By Shares 
& Limited liability Companies As Amended By Laws 
N0s.212/1994,3/1998 And 159/1998 
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC THE PEOPLE'S 
ASSEMBLY SANCTIONED THE LAW HERETO AND 
WE PROMULGATED IT: 
Article 1 
The provisions of the law hereto are applicable on 
shareholder companies, joint stock companies with shares, 
and limited liability companies. Law no. 26/1954 embodying 
certain provisions relating to shareholder companies, limited 
liability com panies and joint stock companies with shares, 
and also law no.244/1960 relating to incorporation in 
shareholder companies, and law no.137/1961 concerning the 
formation of administrative Boards of shareholder 
companies, as well as any provisions discord wit h the 
provisions of the law hereto, are abrogated. 
Article 2 
The provisions of the present law are not prejudicial to any 
provisions of the special laws concerning the public sector 
companies, or the investment of Arab and foreign funds, and 
free zones, or organizing the situations of certain companies. 
The provisions of the present law are applicable on the 
companies referred to, where there are no provisions relating 
to them in the laws organizing them. 
Article 3 
The provisions of law 113/1958 relatin g to appointment in 
the posts of shareholder companies and public organizations, 
and of law 113/1961, prescribing that what any person 
receives should not surpass L.E 5000 annually, and law 
no.73/1973 laying down the conditions, and procedures of 
selection of representative of the workers in the 
administrative boards, are not applicable to the companies 
ruled by the provisions of the present law; furthermore the 
provisions of law no.9/1964 reserving a ratio of profits to 
workers in public organizations and other establishments, are 
not applicable on the offices and branches pertaining to 
foreign companies in Egypt.

The council of ministers is empowered to lay down the rules 
defining the maximum limit of wages in the companies 
subjected to the provisions of the present law. 
Article 4 
The competent minister shall issue the executive regulation 
of the present law and all the decisions of organizations and 
forms of contracts and statutes referred to in the present law 
after taking the advice of the general org anization for the 
money market, within a period of six months from the date 
of publication of the present law. 
Article 5 
The president of the republic shall determine by a decision 
issued by him, the relevant minister and the competent 
administrative aut hority concerned with the application of 
the provisions of the present law. 
Article 6 
This law shall be published in the official journal and enters 
in application after 6 months from the date of its publication. 
This law shall be stamped with the seal o f the state and 
executed as one of its laws. 
 
17th September 1981, ANWAR EL SADAT 
(Published in the official on October 1981) 
 
 
Part 1 
General Provisions 
Chapter 1 
Companies Ruled by the Provisions of the Present Law 
Article1 
The provisions of the present law are applicable on 
Shareholder companies, joint stock companies with shares 
and limited liability companies having their head offices in 
Egypt or exercising in it their principal activities. Every

Company founded in the republic of Egypt is requ ired to 
establish in it its main centre. 
Article 2 
The shareholder company is a company the capital of which 
is divided into shares of equal values and which are to be 
negotiated in the method prescribed in the present law. 
The liability of the shareholder is confined to the value of the 
shares he subscribes in, and he is not answerable on the 
debits of the company except within limit of the shares he 
subscribes in. 
The company shall have a commercial name deriving from 
the purpose of its foundation. Th e company is not allowed to 
take from the name of its parties or of any one them, an 
address for it. 
Article 3 
The joint stock company with is a company the capital of 
which consists of the part or more than what belongs to one 
or more joint partners, an d of shares of equal values 
subscribed in by one or more shareholders, and are 
negotiable in the manner demonstrated by the law. 
The partner or joint partners are answerable for the liabilities 
of the company in unlimited responsibility, but the 
shareholder partner is only responsible within the value of 
the shares he is subscribing in. The address of the company 
will consist of the name or names of one or more of the joint 
partners, in exclusion of others. 
Article 4 
The limited liability company is one the number of partners 
in it do not exceed fifty, each of them is only responsible 
within limit of his part. The foundation of the company, or 
increase of its capital or borrowing to its account, is not 
permissible through public subscription; and it is not allowed 
to it to issue negotiable shares or bonds. 
The transfer of partners' parts shall be ruled by recovery 
from the partners, in the company, in addition to the 
conditions included in the act of the company, in addition to 
the conditions laid down in the present law.

The company may adopt a particular name which may be 
driving from its purpose; and its address may include the 
name of one or more of its partners. 
Article 5 
Joint stock companies with shares and limited liability 
companies are not all owed to undertake insurance 
businesses, or banking functions or savings, or receive 
deposits, or invest funds to the account of other parties. 
Article 6 
All contacts, bills, trade-names and addresses, notices and all 
papers and printed matters issued by companies must bear 
the address of the company, preceded or followed by its 
kind, in clear letters coupled with the indication of the seat of 
its head office, the amount of its paid capital, as shown in its 
last budget. 
Any one who intervenes, under the n ame of the company, in 
any act of disposal in which the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph have not been complied with, will be responsible, 
in his private assets, for all obligations resulting from such 
disposal. 
If the statement relating to the capit al is exaggerated on it, 
other parties may consider, any one who intervenes, in the 
name of the company, as responsible for payment of the 
difference between the real amount of the capital and the 
estimation included in such a statement, within the amount 
necessary for acquittal of the rights of third parties. 
 
Chapter 2 
The F O U N D A T I O N 
1st- The FOUNDERS 
Article 7 
Everyone who effectively takes part in the foundation of the 
company with an intention of shouldering the responsibility 
arising fro m this, is to be considered a founder of the 
company, and the provision of article 89 of the present law is 
applicable on him.

Everyone, in particular, who subscribes the primary act, or 
demands a license for formation of the company, or who 
subscribes a share in kind on its foundation , will be deemed 
a founder. 
Notwithstanding , whoever takes part in the foundation, on 
behalf of practitioners of free profession or others, will not 
be considered a founder. 
Article 8 
The number of founder partners in sh areholder companies 
should not be less than three, and not less than two, with 
regard to other companies coming under the provisions of 
the present law. 
If the number of partners is below the quotas mentioned in 
the preceding clause, the company will be c onsidered legally 
dissolved unless it proceeds within the space of 6 months to 
completion of this quota. The remaining partners will be 
responsible for the liabilities of the company during this 
interval, on all their assets. 
Article 9 
The primary act to be drawn by the founders shall be in 
conformity with the model to be laid down by a decision of 
the relevant minister. 
The act shall not include any provisions the founders or 
certain of them, from the responsibility arising from the 
foundation of the co mpany or from any other conditions 
enacting their application on the company after its 
foundation unless they are included in the act of foundation 
or in its principal statutes. 
Article 10 
The partners are jointly responsible on the obligations they 
undertake. 
Any founder who assumes an obligation on behalf of another 
is to be deemed personally obliged, unless he mentions the 
name of his author in the act of foundation of the company or 
unless the power of attorney presented by him is found to be 
null. 
Article 11

The founder should observe in his dealings the company 
under foundation or to its account, the care of the conscient 
person. The founders shall be obliged, jointly, for any harms 
occurring to the company or to others, resulting from 
inobservance of the obligation. 
If the founder receives any assets or data concerning the 
company under foundation, he should refund such assets to 
it, as well as any profit which devolved to him as a result of 
his exploitation of these funds or data. 
Article 12 
Any disposal taking place between the company under 
foundation and its founders will not be applicable to the 
founded company unless such disposal is approved by its 
administrative board this disposal of the founders or had no 
concern in it, or is of the gr oup of the founders, or in virtue 
of a decision of the general assembly of the company in a 
meeting in which the interested founders have only limited 
votes. 
In all cases the interested founder must put under, the 
consideration of the authority which sanc tions the disposal, 
all the data connected with the said disposal. 
Article 13 
In observance of the provisions of the preceding article, all 
contracts and disposals effected by the founders in the name 
of the company under foundation, become of the right of the 
company after its foundation where they are necessary for its 
functioning in all other cases, such contracts or disposals will 
not be binding to the company after its foundation, unless 
they are sanctioned by the authority mentioned in the 
preceding article. 
Article14 
If the foundation of the company is not effected, on account 
of mistake of its founders, within 6 months from the date of 
notification for its foundation, every subscriber will be 
entitled to demand from the judge of the referee court , the 
designation of the person who will undertake the refund of 
the funds paid, and their distribution on the subscribers. 
The subscriber may also take recourse against the founders 
in joint manner, for compensation, where necessary, and he 
may demand th e restitution of his subscription in the capital 
of the company under foundation, it a period of one year

elapses since the date of subscription, without the procedures 
of foundation of the company being started on. 
 
Second – procedures of foundation 
Article 15 
The primary act of the company and its statues, or the act of 
its foundation, must be authentic, or the signatures on it, 
legalized. With respect to every kind of the companies, it 
should comprise all the data prescribed in the executive to be 
annexed with the act of the company and also the forms of 
legalization of the signatures, by the relevant administrative 
authorities. 
Article 16 
The model of the act of constitution of every type of the 
companies or of their statues will be laid down by a decree of 
the relevant minister. Every model shall comprise all data 
and conditions prescribed by the law or the regulations to 
this effect, and will specify the conditions and forms which 
the founder partners are to observe, or to delete from the 
form, and they may add any other provisions not in discord 
with the provisions of the law or the regulations. 
No departure from the provisions of this model is 
permissible in other cases than those aforementioned. 
Article 17 
The founders or their delegated assig nees shall notify the 
competent administrative authority of the company's 
foundation. The following written documents shall be 
attached to the notification: 
A-the memorandum of association, and the company's 
articles of association, regarding joint stock, and partnership 
limited by shares companies, or the deed of association with 
regard to limited liability companies. 
B-the cabinet's approval of the foundation of the company, if 
its purpose, or part of its purposes, is to work in the activity 
fields of s atellites, issuing newspapers, remote sensing 
systems, or any activity fields of satellites, issuing 
newspapers, remote sensing systems, or any activity 
comprising one of the purposes or works prescribed in the 
law on private societies and institutions.

C- A certificate from one of the banks authorized to issue 
certificates attesting total subscription of all stocks or shares 
of the Company, and that the value that should at least be 
settled of the stocks or cash portions has been paid and 
placed at the Co mpany's disposal until it acquires its legal 
personality. 
D- The (receipt which indicates settling fees at the rate of 
0.1 % of the Company's issued capital, concerning joint 
stock and partnership limited by shares companies, and of 
the Paid up capital re garding limited liability companies, up 
to a minimum of one hundred Egyptian pounds and a ceiling 
of one thousand Egyptian pounds. 
The competent administrative Authority shall deliver to the 
person submitting the notification a certificate to testify the 
foregoing once all the written documents prescribed in the 
foregoing items are attached to the notification and are duly 
fulfilled The Company shall, then, be recorded in the 
Commercial Register by virtue of this certificate without 
need to fulfill any oth er condition or procedure, and 
whatever is the percentage of participation therein by non -
Egyptians. 
The Company shall then be registered publicly and acquire 
the legal personality following the lapse of fifteen days from 
the date of recording it in the commercial Register. 
Article 18 
The competent administrative Authority may within ten days 
from the date of the notification delivered thereto concerning 
the establishment of the company object to its foundation, by 
virtue of a registered letter mailed to the Company at its 
address as mentioned in the papers attached to the 
notification, along with sending a copy of that letter to the 
Commercial Register to mark an annotation thereof on the 
data of the company as recorded The objection which shall 
be justi fied shall comprise the procedures that have to be 
adopted for removal of the causes of the said Authority's 
objection. 
The administrative Authority shall not object to the 
foundation of the Company except for any of the following 
causes: 
(A) In case the Memorandum of Association, the Deed of 
Association or the or the Articles of Association of the 
Company contradict and violate the mandatory data set forth 
in the form, or include law violating matters.

(B) If the purpose of the Company constitutes a vio lation of 
the Law or Public Order. 
(C) In case one of the founders does not fulfill the legal 
capacity requirements as a promoter of the Company. 
Article 19 
Within fifteen days from the date it is notified of the 
objection of the Authority, the Company shall remove the 
causes thereof, or complain against this objection to the 
Minister of Economy; otherwise, the competent 
administrative Authority shall issue a decision deleting the 
company's inscription from Commercial Register. 
The lapse of fifteen days from the date of lodging the 
complaint without final decision being issued in respect 
thereof shall be considered as acceptance of the complaint 
and the effects of the objection shall thus be considered as 
removed accordingly. 
In case the Company's compl aint is rejected, it shall be 
notified thereof by registered mail in order to remove the 
causes of the objection, and if it fails to remove the causes 
within ten days from the notification date, the competent 
Administrative Authority shall issue a decision deleting the 
company's inscription from the Commercial Register. 
In all cases, the legal personality of the Company shall cease 
to exist from the date the decision of deleting its registration 
is issued. Interested parties shall have the right to contest the 
decision before the Administrative Court within sixty days 
from the date of the notification or of learning of the 
decision, and the Court shall thus pass its ruling in the 
contestation summarily. 
The founders shall be responsible jointly, with their private 
properties and funds, for the effects and damages resulting to 
or attaining third parties consequent upon deleting the 
Company's inscription from the Commercial Register, 
without derogation to the criminal penalties prescribed. 
Article 20 
The am ounts paid to the account of the company under 
foundation should be deposited in one of the banks 
designated by a decree of the relevant minister.

The company is not allowed to make withdrawals from these 
amounts except after proclamation of its regime or its act of 
constitution in the Commercial Register 
Article 21 (*) The Executive Statutes shall regulate the 
procedures of publication of the Company deed and articles 
of association in the Egyptian Wakayeh/Government 
Bulletin, or in the special bulletin to be issued for the 
purpose, or in other publication methods. 
The publication in all cases will be at the charge of the 
company. The duties of legalization of the signatures 
regarding the needs of the companies ruled by the provisions 
of this law shall b e of an amount of 1/4% of the capital with 
a maximum of LE 1000, whether the legalization is effected 
in Egypt or at an Egyptian Authority Abroad. 
The acts of constitution of such companies are exempted 
from stamp, and notarial and legalization duties and also the 
contracts of loans, and mortgages relating to the activities of 
these companies during one year from the date of 
legalization of the act of the company and its record in the 
Commercial Register. 
Article 21 (Bis) 
Cancelled As Per Law No. 3/1998 
Article 22 
Cancelled As Per Law No. 3/1998 
Article 23 
Cancelled As Per Law No. 3/1998 
Article 24 
The conditions and procedures relating to the foundation of 
the Company are to be observed in case of modification of 
its statutes in the cases defined by the executive regulation. 
 
THIRD: REGULATIONS _CERNING THE 
FOUNDATION OF THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF 
COMPANIES 
1- SHAREHOLDER AND JOINT STOCK CQ'>1PANIES 
WITH SHARES

Article25 
If estate shares or shares in kind enter in the formation of the 
capital of a shareholder or Joint Stock Company with shares, 
or on the increase of capital, the founders, or the 
administrative board are required to demand from the 
relevant administrative authority to ascertain if these shares 
have been correctly estimated. 
Such asse ssment is to be effected by a committee to be 
formed in the administrative authority concerned, headed by 
a counsellor from one of the judicial organs, and four 
members at most from experts of the economic, and legal 
and professional accountancy organs to be chosen by the said 
authority. 
If the estate's share is owned by the state on any public 
organisation or public sector company, it is requisite that the 
said committee should include representatives of the ministry 
of finance and the National Investment bank. The said 
committee is required to present its report within a period not 
exceeding 60 days from the date of communication of the 
documents to it. 
The founders or the board of administration shall distribute 
the decision of the committee on the part ners and on the 
Central Organisation for accountancy, in case the share in 
third is owned by one of the parties mentioned, in the 
preceding clause, prior to the meeting to be held for its 
discussion by two weeks at least. 
The assessment of these parts wil l not become final except 
after its approval by the group of subscribers or the partners, 
in their numerical majority, owning two thirds of the shares 
or monetary parts, after exclusion of what is belonging to the 
owners of the aforesaid parts. The subscri bers of these parts 
shall not be entitled to vote with regard to the declaration, if 
they are owners of the shares with regard to which they are 
presented, the company should reduce its capital in 
equivalence to this. If its appears that the assessment of the 
share in kind is less by more than one fifth of the amount 
they are presented with regard to it, the company should 
reduce its capital in equivalence with this decrease. 
Nevertheless, the subscriber with this part may fill up the 
difference in cash, a nd he may also withdraw. The parts in 
kind should represent only the shares or parts, of which the 
value is settled in full.

Exceptionally from the provision of this article, if the part in 
kind is 'presented by the totality of the subscribers or 
partners, their assessment of it will be final. However, if it 
appears that the estimated value is higher than the real value 
of the subscribed part in kind, these will be jointly 
responsible in front of other parties for the difference 
between the two values. 
Article 26 
The meeting of the founders assembly will be held on the 
demand of their group or their attorney within a month from 
closure of the door of subscriptions, or the elapse of the 
period fixed for participation, or on the presentation of a 
report on assessment of all the subscriptions in kind whit 
ever is nearer. 
All partners are entitled to attend such a meeting whatever be 
the number or value of their parts. The executive regulation 
will determine the procedures and times of convocation, and 
the re quisite data therefore and the mode of its publication 
and the organs to which they should be communicated. 
The presidency of the founders assembly will be to biggest 
shareholder, or owner of the biggest part, and the assembly 
will select its secretary, and recorder of votes. 
The president, the secretary and recorder of votes will sign 
the minutes of the meeting. 
Article 27 
It is required for the validity of the meeting of the founders’ 
assembly that it be attended by a number of partners 
representing half the issued capital at least. 
If the quorum mentioned in the foregoing clause is not 
available in the meeting, a new invitation should be issued 
for a second meeting to be held within 15 days from the first 
meeting. The executive regulation will prescr ibe the 
procedure and data relating to the second convocation. 
The second meeting will be valid is attended by a number of 
partners representing one quarter of the issued capital. The 
decision of the founders’ assembly The decision of the 
founders’ assemb ly will be taken according to the majority 
of votes representing the shares or parts of the attendants, 
unless the law prescribes a special majority in respect of 
certain matters.

Article 28 
The founders’ assembly is concerned with the consideration 
of the following matters: 
1- Assessment of the parts in kind in the manner prescribed 
by the present law. 
2- The founders report on the operation of foundation of the 
company and the expenses entailed by it. 
3 - Approval of the statutes of the Company. The Assembly 
is not entitled to introduce any modifications on them except 
by agreement of the founders, and the numerical majority of 
the partners representing at least two thirds of the capital. 
4 - Sanction of the selection of the members of the first board 
of administration and the auditor of accounts. 
2 - LIMITED.LIABILITY COMPANIES 
Article 29 
The foundation of the limited liability Company will not be 
complete unless all the cost shares are distributed in the act 
of constitution of the company between the partners, and 
their amounts are paid in full. 
If the subscription of the part in kind will be responsible in 
front of the others in respect of its assessed value in the act 
of the company. If an increase is observed in this estimate, 
the difference s hould be paid in cash to the company. The 
rest of the joint partners will be responsible for payment of 
such difference unless they prove their ignorance of this. 
Article 30 
The founders of the Company as well as the managers shall 
be responsible, in cas e of increase of the capital, jointly in 
front of any concerned party, with respect to the following, 
even if it is otherwise agreed. : 
(a) The part of the capital subscribed in an incorrect manner. 
They are to be deemed responsible, by order of the law, as 
subscribing in it and are required to pay it immediately upon 
discovery of the cause of invalidity. 
(b) Any increase in the amount of the parts in kind assessed 
differently from the actual value, in the act of foundation of 
the Company, or of increase of the capital. They are to be

deemed by the force of law as subscribers of the increase 
which they are required to settle, when such an event is 
proved. 
 
PART II - PROVISIONS RELATING TO 
THE KINDS OF COMPANIES 
CHAPITER 1 - SHAREHOLDER COMPANIES 
FIRST: - THE FINANCIAL SCOPE 
1- THE CAPITAL AND THE PROFITS 
Article 31 
The Capital is divided into nominal shares of equal values. 
The statutes fix the nominal value of the share provided that 
it be not less than L.E. 5 and not exceeding L.E. 1000. This 
provision is not applicable on standing companies on the 
date of promulgation of this law and its entry in application. 
The share is indivisible and cannot be issued at less than its 
nominal value except in the cases and on the conditions 
prescribed in the exe cutive regulation. In all cases, the 
increases are to be added to the reserves. The expenses of 
issue should not in any case surpass the limit laid down by a 
decision of the general organisation of the money market. 
The executive regulation organises the data in the certificates 
of the shares and the means of replacement of lost or 
deteriorated certificates, and what is to be adopted with 
regard to these certificates in cases of modification of the 
statutes. 
Article 32 (*) 
The Company shall have an Issue d Capital. The articles of 
association may determine an authorized capital exceeding 
the issued capital by not more than ten times the amount 
thereof. The Executive Statutes may determine a minimum 
limit for the Issued capital concerning the companies 
exercising specific kinds of activities, as well as a minimum 
limit of the amount paid up thereof when founding the 
company. 
The issued capital shall, conditionally, be fully subscribed, 
and each subscriber shall pay at least (10%) of the nominal

value of the cash shares, to be increased to (25%) within a 
period not exceeding 3 months from the date of founding the 
company, providing the balance of that value shall be settled 
within a period not exceeding five years from the date of the 
company's foundation. 
The executive statutes shall determine the procedures of 
circulation/assignment of the stocks before payment of their 
full value. 
Article 33 
A resolution of the extraordinary general assembly may be 
issued increasing the issued or authorized capital. The Board 
of Directors may also issue a decision increasing the issued 
capital within the limits of the authorized capital in case it 
exists. In all cases, the issued capital may not be increased 
before its settlement in full, except by virtue of a resolution 
from the extraordinary general assembly, providing the 
subscribers of the Increase shall pay not less than the 
percentage determined for payment out of the issued capital 
before increasing it, and they. shall pay the balance of the 
subscribed increase at t he same dates to be determined for 
settling the balance of the value of the issued capital. 
Increasing the issued capital shall actually take place 
completely within three years from issuing the decision 
authorizing the increase, or within the period dete rmined for 
settling the issued capital before its increase, whichever is 
longer, otherwise the resolution authorizing the increase shall 
be nullified 
Article 34 
No foundation or profits parts can be created except on 
surrender of the right accorded by the Government, or of one 
of the moral rights. 
The statutes of the company should comprise a statement of 
the counterparts of the parts and the rights relating to them. 
The General Assembly of the Company has the authority of 
canceling them against a just compensation to be fixed by the 
committee alluded to in article 25, after lapse of one third of 
the period of the company or of ten financial years almost 
from the date of institution of these parts, unless the statutes 
of the company prescribe a shorter pe riod, or at any time 
thereafter. 
No more than 10 % of the net profits could be assigned to 
these parts after deduction of the legal reserve and accord of

at least 5% as profits of the capital. On dissolution and 
liquidation of the company, the owners of t hese parts shall 
have no share in the balance of the liquidation. The 
provisions of this paragraph are not applicable on companies 
standing on date of application of this law. 
Article 35 
The issue of enjoyment shares is not allowed except by 
companies the statutes of which provide the consumption of 
their shares before expiration of the period of the company, 
on account of the dependence of the activity on a concession 
of exploitation of one of the sources of natural wealth, or of 
one of the public utilit ies assigned to it during a limited 
period, or of any of the phases of exploitation that are 
consumable by use, or after a certain period. 
The statues may prescribe the accord of certain privileges to 
certain kinds of shares, in the course of voting or wi th regard 
to profits, or balances of liquidation, provided that shares of 
the same type, should be accorded equal treatment in 
advantages or restrictions. The modification of such rights or 
advantages or restrictions, concerning any kind of shares, 
cannot be modified except by a decision of the extraordinary 
general assembly and by the agreement of two thirds of the 
bearers of the kind of shares which will be subject to 
modification. 
In all cases, the statutes of the company should include on its 
foundation, the rules and conditions of the privileged shares. 
No increase of the capital by privileged shares is allowed 
unless the statutes allow this to begin with, and after sanction 
of the extraordinary general assembly. 
The executive regulation comprises the restrictions, forms 
and conditions f relating to issue of privileged shares. 
Article 36 
Cancelled As Per law No. 3/1998 
Article: 37 (*) 
If the company's stocks are floated for public subscription, 
this shall be done through one of the banks authorized by a 
decree of the Minister of Economy to receive the 
subscriptions, or through the companies established for that 
purpose, or the companies authorized to deal in securities 
and after approval from the money Market Authority

In case the subscription is n ot covered within the period 
determined there for, the banks or companies that received 
the subscriptions may cover the whole or part of the floated 
shares that have not been covered, if the banks or companies 
are authorized to do that. They may also re -float the stocks 
subscribed thereby, for subscription by the public, without 
being restricted by the procedures and limitations on 
circulation of stocks as prescribed in this law. 
The executive statutes shall determine the procedures of and 
conditions for application of the provisions of this article. 
Article 38 
If the subscriptions exceed the number of shares offered for 
it, they should be distributed on the subscribers in the 
manner specified the statutes of the company, provided that 
this involves the e limination of the part subscribed in the 
company, whatever be the number of shares subscribed in, 
with approximation of fractions in favour of minor 
subscribers. 
Article 39 (*) 
The company shall have a financial year to be determined by 
the articles of association, and for which financial statements 
shall be prepared according to the accounting criteria as shall 
be issued by a decree of the minister of Economy. 
The Company's articles of association may provide for 
preparing periodical financial statement s for it of which the' 
period covered thereby shall not be less than three months 
providing that the company whose purpose is to participate 
in the foundation of other companies or to participate in 
these companies in any aspect shall prepare accumulated 
financial statements (balance sheet inventories) for these 
companies. 
Article 40 
The net profits are those realised from operations exercised 
by the company after deduction of all expenses needed for 
their realisation, and after accounting for all consump tions 
and allocations, which the accountancy rules impose and 
putting them aside before proceeding on any distribution in 
whatever way. 
The administrative board shall put aside from the net profits 
mentioned in the preceding clause, a twentieth part at le ast 
for formation of a legal reserve. The general assembly may

stop this reserve, if it reaches one half of the capital. The 
legal reserve may be used in covering the losses of the 
company and in increase of its capital. 
The statutes of the company may au thorise putting aside of a 
Special ratio of the profits for formation of a regular reserve. 
If the regular reserve is not assigned for definite purposes 
prescribed in the statutes of the company, the ordinary 
general assembly may, on the proposal of the a dministrative 
board, decide its utilisation in affairs profitable to the 
company or to the shareholders. 
The General Assembly may also, on the proposal of the 
administrative board create other reserves. 
The General Assembly may approve the distribution o f a 
ratio of the net profits rea1ised by the company from sale of 
any of its permanent assets or compensation for it, provided 
that this does not result in disabling the company from 
restoration of its assets to their previous state, or purchase of 
new permanent assets. 
(*) The Company's Articles of Association may provide that 
the General Assembly shall have the right to distribute all or 
part of the profits displayed and revealed by the periodical 
financial statements as prepared by the company, providing a 
report thereon from the auditor shall be attached thereto. 
Article 41 
Workers in the Company shall have a share in the 
distributable profits to be fixed by the General Assembly on 
the proposal of the administrative board, at not less than 
10 % of the se profits and not surpassing the total of the 
annual wages of workers in the company. The executive 
regulation defines the mode of distribution of any excess 
above the said 10 % of the profits on the workers and 
services that are profitable to them. 
The foregoing clause does not prejudice the system of 
distribution of profits presently applied by the companies on 
the date of application of the law if it is preferable to the 
provisions referred to. 
Article 42 
The General Assembly shall decide the mode of utilisation of 
the remaining part of net profits after payment of the 
amounts mentioned in the preceding articles, and the ratio

reserved to allocations of the members of the administrative 
board from the net profits. 
No disposals should be made of the r eserves and allocations 
mentioned in the foregoing articles in other purposes than 
those assigned for them, except by approval of the General 
Assembly. 
Article 43 
No distribution of profits is allowed if it culminates in 
disabling the Company from confronting its cash liabilities in 
due time. 
Creditors of the company may demand from the competent 
Court the invalidation of any decision issued in 
contravention to the provisions of the preceding clauseThe 
members of the Administrative Board who approved the 
distribution will be jointly responsible in front of the 
creditors, within limit of the amount of the profits the 
distribution of which has been prevented. 
Recourse may also. be had on the shareholders who know 
that the distribution was effected in contr avention of this 
article within limit of the profits they obtained. 
Article 44 
Both the shareholder and the workers will deserve, each his 
part in the profits, immediately upon issue of the decision of 
the General Assembly for distribution. 
The Administrative board should proceed to the execution of 
the decision of the General Assembly for distribution of 
profits to Shareholders and workers, within one month at 
most from the date of issue of the decision. The Shareholder 
or worker cannot be forced to restitute the profits he received 
in compliance with the provisions of the law, even if the 
Company sustains losses in subsequent years. 
2 - Negotiation of Shares 
Article 45 
The negotiation of founders parts and shares issued against 
shares in kind are not negotiable, and also the shares 
subscribed in by the founders of the company before 
publication of the budget and profits and losses account and 
all kinds of vouchers annexed to them relating to two -full

years, each of them not less than 12 months from th e date of 
foundation of the Company. 
In course of this period, it is not permissible to detach the 
sheets of the shares and parts from their counterfoils, and a 
stamp is to be put on them indicating their kind, the date of 
foundation of the company and th e payments effected in 
virtue of them. 
Nevertheless, exceptionally from these provisions, the 
transfer of the ownership of the shares subscribed in by the 
founders of the company from one of them to another or to a 
member of the administrative board may b e effected, if they 
are to be presented by way of security for his faculty of 
management, or from his heirs to third parties in case of his 
decease. 
The provisions of this article are applicable on what the 
founders of the company subscribed in, in increa ses of the 
capital prior to the expiration of the period stated in this 
paragraph. 
Article 46 (*) 
Subject to the provisions of the previous article, neither the 
subscription certificates nor the stocks shall be negotiated for 
more than their value of iss ue plus - when necessary - the 
charges for their cost of issue during the period prior to 
recording the Company in the Register of Commerce 
concerning the Subscription Certificates or the period 
subsequent to the date of recording the Company until 
publishing the balance sheet inventories (financial 
statements) for a complete financial year, with regard to the 
stocks, except according to the conditions and procedures for 
which a decree shall be issued by the Minister of economy. 
Article 47 
The shares and stocks of shareholder companies issued 
through public subscriptions, should be presented, in course 
of one year from the date of closure of subscriptions, to all 
stock exchanges in Egypt for their insertion in their price 
lists in conformity with the forms and conditions laid down 
in the regulation of these stock exchanges. 
The delegated member of the administrative board will be 
responsible for the fulfillment of the provisions of this 
article, and for the penalty to be due on account of its 
contravention when necessary.

Article 48 (*) 
If the Company obtains in any way part of its stocks, it shall 
dispose thereof to third parties within a period of not more 
than one year from the date of obtaining them otherwise it 
shall reduce its capital by the equivalent of the nominal value 
of these stocks, by following the procedures prescribed 
therefor. The company may buy some of its stocks for 
distribution to its workers as part of their share in the profits. 
 
3- Issue of stocks 
Article 49 
The Company may issue nominal stocks that are negotiable 
subject to their issue being by a decision of the General 
Assembly and after full payment of the capital and provided 
that their value does not exceed the net assets of the 
company, as determined by the auditor of accounts according 
to the last budget approved by the General Assembly. 
If a part of the stocks to be issued by the company is put to 
public subscription, this should take place after approval of 
the General Organisation of the Money Market, through one 
of the banks authorised by a decision of the relevant 
minister, for collection of subscriptions, or by one of the 
companies founded for this purpose or which are authorised 
to deal in stocks. 
The call of the public for general subscription in stocks will 
be by a notice including the data and proceedings and 
manner of publicity defined by the executive regulation. 
In case of contravention of the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph any interested party may demand from the 
competent court the invalidation of the subscription and 
obliging the company to refund immediately the value of the 
stocks, in addition to its responsibility for compensation of 
the harm caused to him. 
The executive regulation defines the data to be contained in 
the stocks certificate and the mode of replacement of lost or 
deteriorated certificates or what is to be followed with regard 
to these certificates on modification of the statutes of the 
Company. 
Article 50

Exceptionally from the provisions of the preceding article, 
the company may issue stocks before fulfillment of the issue 
capital in full, in the following cases: 
(a) If the stocks are guaranteed for their full amounts by a 
mortgage having priority on the properties of the company. 
(b)Stocks guaranteed by the state. 
(c) Stocks com pletely subscribed in by banks or companies 
operating in the domain of stocks, even if they resell them. 
(d) Estate, and estate credit -companies and companies 
authorised in these domains by a decision of the competent 
minister. The issue of stocks for val ues exceeding the net 
amounts of their assets, may be authorised by a decision of 
the relevant minister, on a proposal of the general 
organisation of the money market, within the limits fixed by 
the said decision. 
Article 51 
The conditions of issue of stocks may lay down their liability 
to conversion to shares after lapse of the period fixed by the 
company in the notice for subscription. Such conversion 
shall be by approval of the holder of the stock. The 
application of the provisions of this article must be in 
observance of the rules laid for increase of the capital. 
Article 52 
A Society for holders of stocks is to be formed embodying 
all stockholders of the same emission of the company, the 
object of which is the protection of the joint interests of it s 
members. 
The Society will have a legal representative from its 
members, the selection or dismissal of whom will be under 
the conditions and modes defined in the executive regulation, 
provided that he has not any direct or indirect relation with 
the company, or any interest discording with that of the stock 
holders. 
The relevant administrative organisation should be notified 
of the formation of the society and the name of its 
representative, and copies of its decisions should be 
communicated to the said authority. The representative of the 
society should attend to the protection of its joint interests, 
whether in front of the company or others, or before the

Courts, within limit of the decisions taken by the society in a 
valid assembly. 
The executive reg ulation lays down the forms and 
proceedings and the convocation of the society to meeting, 
and those entitled to attend, and the manner and place of the 
meeting, and of voting in it and relation of the society with 
the company and the administrative authorities. 
The representative of the society is entitled to attend the 
meetings of the General Assembly of the Company, and 
expression of his remarks without having a countable vote. 
He may also present decisions and recommendations of the 
Society to the Admi nistrative Board or to the General 
Assembly of the Company. 
 
SECOND - THE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY 
1 - THE COMPETENCE FOR MANAGEMENT AND 
PROTECTION OF DEALERS WITH THE COMPANY 
Article 53 
The General Assembly and the Administrative Board and the 
workers or the deputies appointed by these bodies have the 
authority of affecting the legal disposals on behalf of the 
company, within limit of the provisions of the law, the act of 
the company and its internal regulation. 
Article 54 The Board of Administration has all powers 
concerning the management of the company and undertaking 
all the business necessary for fulfilling its object; with the 
exception of such matters as are excluded by a special 
provision of the law or the statutes of the General Assembly. 
Nevertheless, the General Assembly may oppose any of the 
affairs of management if the board of administration was 
unable to statute on it, on account of the absence of the 
quorum of the board by reason of the lack of competence of 
a number of its members or their intentional in attendance, or 
the inability of ensuring a majority in support of the decision. 
The Assembly may ratify any action emanating from the 
Administrative Board, and may issue recommendations on 
the works falling within the competence of the board. 
Article 55

Any action or disposal emanating from the General 
Assembly or the board of Administration or any of its 
committees, or its representations in the management, in 
course of exercise of the business of management, will be 
obliging to the company in the ordinary way. Third parties, 
of good intention, may protest on such action in front of the 
Company, even if the disposal is in excess of the authority of 
an issue organ, or if the legally prescribed formalities have 
not been observed in it. 
In all cases, the Company is not allowed to take on its 
responsibility any works or activities practised by it 
effectively while its statutes do not allow it to undertake such 
works or actions. 
Article 56 
Any disposal effected by every employer or agen t of the 
company will not be binding to it unless it is expressly or 
conclusively licenced by the General Assembly or the 
Administrative Board or whomsoever of their members is 
vested with it, as the case may be. 
Nevertheless, a well -intentioned third par ty may, invoke, in 
confrontation of the company, any act perpetrated by one of 
the staff or agents of the company, with regard at any action 
exercised by him if any of the authorities alluded to assert 
that he dispsoses of the power for action on its behal f, and 
other parties depend on such declaration in their dealings 
with the Company. 
Article 57 
The Company cannot invoke, in confrontation of will -
intentioned third parties of dealers with it, that the provisions 
or regulations of the company have not be en observed with 
regard to such act. 
It should not also, protest that its administrative board or 
some of its members, or of the managers of the company or 
others of its staff or agents have not been appointed in the 
manner requisite by the law or the sta tutes of the company, 
so long as their actions have remained within the normal 
limits, in analogy with those in similar situations in 
companies exercising the same type of activity practised by 
the company. 
Article 58

Whoever his situation of the action considered of these 
articles effectively knows or is in a position to know through 
or relations with the company, the defects or deficiencies 
addicted to, in confrontation of the company, cannot be well -
intentioned, under the provisions of the preceding articles. 
A person is not considered aware of the contents of any act 
or voucher, merely by reason of its publication or registration 
by any of the methods prescribed in the present laws. 
 
2- The General Assembly 
Article 59 
Every Shareholder is entitled to attend the General Assembly 
of Shareholders, personally or by proxy. No Shareholder 
other than members of the Administrative Board is allowed 
to charge any member of the Administrative Board to replace 
him in the attendance of Genra1 Assemblies. In orde r that 
attendance by proxy may be valid, it is essential that it be 
confirmed in a written power of attorney, and that the 
mandated person be a shareholder. 
Article 60 
The board of administration must be represented in the 
General Assembly by not less th an the number requisite for 
forming a quorum for its meeting, except in the cases in 
which the number of the members of this board is less than 
this. It is not allowed to abstain from attendance of the 
meeting without a plausible excuse. 
In all cases the meeting will not become invalid if it is 
attended by three at least of the members of the 
administrative board including the chairman of the board, or 
his deputy, or one of the members delegated for 
management, and if the meeting fulfils the other conditio ns 
stipulated by the law and the executive regulation. 
If the quorum of the shareholders meeting is legal but the 
quorum of the administrative -board in it is not extant, the 
assembly may in this case consider the infliction of a 
monetary penalty on the me mbers of the board of 
administration who did not attend, without an admissible 
excuse. If their non -attendance recurs, the assembly may 
consider their dismissal and selection of others and then 
convoking the assembly to another meeting.

The proceedings co ncerning the attendance of Shareholders 
in the meeting of the General Assembly are demonstrated in 
the executive regulation. 
Article 61 
The General Assembly of Shareholders is to be convoked by 
an invitation from the chairman of the board of 
administration, at the time and place designated by the 
statutes of the company. The Assembly should be held at 
least once in the year, in course of the six months succeeding 
the end of the financial year of the Company. 
The Board of Administration, may decide the co nvocation of 
the General Assembly whenever a necessity arises for this. 
The board is called upon to convoke the ordinary General 
Assembly if the auditor of accounts demands this from it, or 
at least 4 number of shareholders representing 5% of the 
capital of the company at least, provided that they express 
the motives of the demand, and that they deposit their shares 
in the headquarters of the company or at one of the approved 
banks; of and such shares are not to be withdrawn except 
after dissolution of the General Assembly. 
The executive regulation defines the proceedings of 
convocation of the General Assembly and the contents of the 
invitation and the mode of its notification, and publication, 
and its times, and the parties to be thereof notified. 
Article 62 
The auditor of accounts or the relevant administrative 
authority may call the General Assembly to meeting in the 
cases in which the administrative board relaxes from its 
convocation, in spite of the necessity for doing this and the 
lapse of one month since the occurrence of the necessity or 
the commencement of the period in which the address of the 
invitation for the meeting should be effected. 
The relevant administrative Authority may also convoke the 
General Assembly if the number of members of the board of 
administration falls below the minimum limit which must be 
available for the validity of the meeting, or if the members 
completing this limit refrain from attendance. In all cases the 
expenses of the invitation will be at the charge of the 
Company. 
Article 63

With observance of the provisions of the present law, and the 
statutes of the company, the ordinary General Assembly will 
be concerned with the following 
(a) Selection of the members of the administrative board and 
their dismissal. 
(b) Co ntrol of the works of the Administrative Board and 
considering its liberation from responsibility. 
(c) Sanction of the budget and the profit and loss account. 
(d) Approval of the report of the Administrative board on the 
activities of the Company. 
(e) Approval of the distribution of profits. 
(f) All what the board of administration or the relevant 
administrative authority or the shareholders possessing 5% 
of the Capital of the Company, consider that it be submitted 
to the General Assembly. 
It is also concerned with all what the laws and the statutes of 
the company prescribe. 
Article 64 (*) 
The Board of Directors shall prepare for each financial year 
within a date allowing for holding a meeting of the General 
Assembly of Stockholders at most within thr ee months from 
the date of the end of the financial year the financial 
statements of the Company (balance sheet inventories), and a 
report on its activity during the financial year as well as its 
financial situation at the end of the year itself. 
Article 65 
The Board of Administration is called upon to publish the 
budget, the profit and less account and a complete summary 
of its report, and the full text of the report of the auditor of 
accounts, before the meeting of the General Assembly. The 
executive regulation defines the means of publication and its 
times. 
In case the statutes of the company allow, a copy of the 
vouchers mentioned in the first paragraph may be dispatched 
by registered letter, or by any other means indicated by the 
executive regulation, to every Shareholder, and the times of 
their dispatch.

Article 66 
The executive regulation indicates what should be brought to 
the knowledge of shareholders, before the meeting of the 
general assembly, of data concerning the allocations and 
salaries of the chairman and members of the board of 
administration and all advantages or other allowances they 
obtained and the operations in which any of them is 
interested, in discord with the interest of the company, and 
any other data relating to subventions or expenses of 
propaganda. The executive regulations will indicate the 
modes and times relating to this. 
Article 67 
The ordinary meeting of the General Assembly will not be 
valid unless it is attended by shareholders representing at 
least one quarter of the capital unless the statutes of the 
company stipulate a higher proportion, provided that it does 
not surpass half the capital. If this minimum is not extant in 
the first meeting, the General Assembly will be called to a 
second meeting within the 30 days su bsequent to the first 
meeting. The statutes of the company may contain a 
provision for contenting with the invitation to the first 
meeting if the date of a second meeting is fixed in them. 
The second meeting will be deemed valid whatever the 
number of shares represented in it may be. 
The executive regulation determines the proceedings of the 
invitation and its means and the data it contains. The 
decisions of the General Assembly are to be taken by the 
absolute majority of the votes represented in the meet ing. 
The regulation also lays down the proceedings of meeting of 
the General Assembly, its chairmanship and manner of 
selection of its Secretariat and the collectors of votes, and the 
methods of their collection. 
Article 68 (*) 
The extraordinary General Assembly is concerned with the 
modification of the statutes, of the company with observance 
of the following: 
(a) It is not permitted to increase the liabilities of 
Shareholders. Any decision issued by the General Assembly, 
of a nature to affect the basic interests of the shareholder 
derived from his quality of partner, will be null.

(b) It is allowable to add purposes complimentary to the 
main purpose of the company or near to it, and it is not 
permitted to change the original purpose of it, except for 
reasons to be approved by the Competent Administrative. 
(c) The Extraordinary General Assembly has the faculty or 
considering the prolongation of the period of the company or 
shortening it, or its dissolution before the expiration of its 
term, or changing the ratio of loss which entails its 
dissolution forcibly, or its amalgamation, whatever the 
provisions of the statures may be. 
Article 69 
If the losses of the company reach half the issued capital, the 
board of administration should promptly convoke the 
extraordinary General Assembly for consideration of the 
dissolution of the company or its continuance. 
Article 70 
The provisions relating to the ordinary General Assembly are 
applicable to the extraordinary General Assembly, with 
observance of the following: 
(a) The extraordinary General Assembly meets upon an 
invitation of the board of Administration. The board should 
address the invitation if it is asked by a number of 
Shareholders representing one tenth of the capital at least, on 
account of serious r easons, and subject to the applicants 
depositing their shares at the head office of the company or 
in any approved bank. The shares should not be withdrawn 
except after dismissal of the Assembly. If the board does not 
convoke the assembly during one month from the date of 
presentation of the demand, the applicants may have 
recourse to the relevant administrative authority which will 
assume addressing the invitation. 
(b) The meeting of the extraordinary General Assembly will 
not be valid unless it is attend ed by Shareholders 
representing at least half the capital. If this minimum quorum 
is not present in the first meeting, the Assembly is invited to 
a second meeting to be held within 30 days from the date of 
the first meeting. The second meeting will be cons idered 
valid if attended by a number of Shareholders representing at 
least one quarter of the capital. 
The executive regulation indicates the proceedings of the 
invitation and its times, and method of publicity and

advertising thereof, and those who are e ntitled to attend it 
other Shareholders. 
(c) The decisions of the extraordinary General Assembly are 
issued by a majority of two thirds of the shares represented 
in the meeting, unless in case of the decision being relative to 
increase or diminution of th e capital or dissolution of the 
company before its term, or changing the original purpose of 
its foundation, or its amalgamation. In these cases, the 
validity of the decision necessitates that it be issued by three 
quarters of the shares represented in the meeting. 
Article 71 
The General Assembly is not allowed to debate on other 
questions than those appearing in the agenda. However, in 
case of grave matters being disclosed in course of the 
meeting, the debate may take place on them. 
The decisions of the General Assembly legally constituted 
and in compliance with the law are obliging to all the 
shareholders whether they were present in the meeting in 
which they were taken, or absent from it, or dissenters'. The 
board of administration is called upon to ex ecute the 
decisions of the General Assembly. 
Article 72 
Every shareholder who attends the meeting of the General 
Assembly has the right of discussing the questions included 
in the Agenda of the meeting, and calling the members of the 
Administrative board, and the auditors of accounts to answer 
on questions relating to them. He may also present any 
question before the meeting of the General Assembly, at the 
time fixed by the regulation. Any provision depriving the 
shareholder from exercise of this right will be invalid. 
The Administrative Board answers the shareholders' 
questions and interrogations in the extent which does not 
cause any harm to the interests of the company or the public 
interest. If the questioner finds that the answer is insufficient, 
he may appeal to the General Assembly, the decision of 
which will be due for execution. 
Article 73 
Voting in the General Assembly will be in the manner laid 
down by the statutes. The voting should be by secret ballot if 
the decision is relating to selection of the members of the 
administrative board or their revocation or bringing action on

them for responsibility or if the chairman of the board of 
administration or a number of shareholders representing one 
tenth of the attending votes in the meeting demand. 
Article 74 
Members of the Board of Administration should not take part 
in voting on the decision of the General Assembly 
concerning the fixation of their allocations or gratification or 
discharging their responsibilities on management. 
Article 75 
Minutes are to be drawn with a full summary on the debates 
of the General Assembly and of all what takes place in 
course of the meeting, with mention of the quorum of 
attendance, the decisions taken in the assembly, the number' 
of agreeing and discount votes, and all what the Shareholders 
demand its mention in the minutes. 
The manner of attending shareholders should be recorded in 
a special register confirming their attendance either 
personally or by proxy. The register is to be subscribed, 
before the beginnin g of the meeting, by the auditor of 
accounts and the censor of votes. 
The minutes of the meetings of the General Assembly are to 
be recorded in regular manner, after each meeting, in a 
special register. the keeping of these registers and books, the 
provisions concerning commercial registers are to be 
followed, as regards the absence of vacant spaces, or of 
writing in the margins, or erasures or overloads. 
The pages of these registers must be numerated in serial 
manner and before the register is put to use , each leaf thereof 
should be stamped by the seal of notarial publicity and 
legalisation and shall be initialed by the competent notary. 
The numeration and placing of the seal of the department of 
registration and legalisation shall be in the afore -said 
manner. 
No new book should be presented for legalisation before 
presentation of the prior book to the competent notary, for 
voting its closure and record of this in the books ad hoc, in 
the department. 
These provisions concerning legalisation are applicabl e on 
the records of shareholders, and of attendance of the General 
Assembly as well as on the main and auxiliary books of 
accounts.

The company is called upon to preserve all the vouchers 
confirming the contracts of the books and registers. 
The signatori es of the minutes of the meetings are 
responsible for the correctness of the data of the books of the 
company alluded to and whoever of them is of the members 
of the administrative board, will be answerable for their 
compliance with the provisions of the l aw and the statutes of 
the company. 
A copy of the minutes of the meeting of the General 
Assembly should be forwarded to the competent 
administrative authority within one month from the date of 
its meeting. 
Without prejudice to the rights of well -intentioned persons, 
any decision of the General Assembly issued in 
contravention to the provisions of the law or the statutes of 
the Company will be void. 
Likewise any decision issued in favour of a certain group of 
the shareholders, or in their prejudice, may b e nullified, or if 
it aims at procuring special advantage to the members of the 
board of administration or others, in disregard to the interests 
of the company. 
The demand of nullification in this case can only be made by 
shareholders who had protested ag ainst the decision in the 
minutes of the meeting. The relevant administrative authority 
may replace them in the application for nullification, if they 
invoke serious reasons. 
The decision of nullification involves the consideration of 
the decision as inex istent with respect to all shareholders. 
The board of administration shall publicise the decision of 
nullification in one of the daily newspapers and in the paper 
of the companies. 
The action for nullification will be foreclosed by the lapse of 
a year. The bringing of a law suit does not entail stoppage of 
the execution of the decision unless this is ordered by the 
Court. 
3 - THE BOARD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Article 77 
The management of the Company will be undertaken by a 
board of Administration composed of an odd number of 
members not less than three to be chosen by the General

Assembly for a period of three years in the manner 
determined in the statutes of the Company; exceptionally 
from this rule, the first board of administration will be 
appointed by the founders for a maximum period of five 
years. 
The General Assembly may, at any time, revoke the board of 
administration or any of its members, even if this is not 
mentioned in the agenda. 
The meeting of the board will not be valid if it is not 
attended by three members at least, unless the statutes of the 
Company stipulate a higher, number. 
The members of the board may replace one another in 
attending the meeting, provided that number of votes of the 
representing members does not surpass one third of the votes 
of the attendants. No member of the administrative -board 
can replace more than one member. 
Article 78 
The statutes of the company may determine the mode of 
appointment of reserve members in the board of 
administration, to replace the original membe rs in cases of 
absence or occurrence of an obstacle, as defined in the 
executive regulation. 
Article 79 
The Board of Administration may divide the work between 
its members in accord with the nature of the Company's 
business. The board may also exercise the following: 
(a) Delegating one or a committee of its members for 
conducting a specific business or more, or exercise of 
supervision over one kind of the activities of the company or 
assumption of the authorities or attributes assigned to the 
board. 
(b) Delegating one or more members for effective 
management. The assembly may define the attributes of the 
delegated member. The delegated member must be fully 
occupied with the management. 
Article 80 
The board of administration will meet on a call of its 
chairman, or of one third of its members and whenever a 
need arises.

Article 81 
The minutes of the meetings of the boards of administration 
must be recorded in regular manner after each meeting in a 
special register, to be subscribed by the president and 
secretary. The rules and forms relating to the books of the 
General Assembly are applicable on this register. 
Article 82 
The board of administration may appoint a general manager 
for the company, who will head the executive organism in it. 
He maybe calle d to attend the meetings of the board of 
administration without having a countable vote in it. 
The General Manager will perform his duties under the 
supervision of the delegated member or the chairman of the 
board of Administration, if he is exercising th e effective 
duties of management and he shall be responsible before 
him. 
Article 83 
Without prejudice to the provisions relating to the 
participation of the manpower in the management, a director 
or employee in it can not be appointed as member in its 
board of administration unless he had been occupying a main 
post in the company during a period not less than two years. 
Article 84 
Workers in shareholder companies founded according to the 
provisions of this law will exercise a role in the management 
of t hese companies. The executive regulation defines the 
methods and conditions of participation of the manpower in 
the management. The statutes of the Company must indicate 
one of the modes of participation in the management 
included in the executive regulation. 
Article 85 
The board of Administration shall select one of its members 
as chairman and may also designate a deputy of the chairman 
to replace him in his absence. 
The board may entrust to the chairman the duties of the 
delegated member; and it may ch arge the chairman with the 
duties of the said member. The Chairman of the Board 
represents the Company before the judicature. The Statutes 
and regulations of the Company define the other functions

assigned to the Chairman and the members of the board and 
the staff. 
Article 86 
In case of vacancy of the position of a member of the board 
of administration, he will be replaced by the member next to 
him in the number of votes in the latest election of the board. 
The term of the new member will be complementary to that 
of his antecedent. In other cases, the board may nominate the 
one who replaces him until the first meeting of the General 
Assembly. 
The nomination of one who replaces a member of moral 
personality in the administrative board will be on the 
proposal of the one whom he is representing. Such 
proposition should take place within a month from the date 
of vacancy of this position. 
Article 87 
Every company should dress annually a detailed list 
approved by its board chairman and the delegated member, 
with the name of its president and the members of the board 
and their qualities and nationalities. 
The Company shall keep a copy of this list and forward the 
original to the relevant administrative authority, before the 
beginning of January every year. 
The company must advise the relevant administrative 
authority of every change which occurs in the aforesaid list 
immediately on its occurrence. 
Article 88 
The statues of this company define the method of fixing the 
allocations of the members of the board of administration 
which should not be on a percentage ratio of the profits, 
exceeding 10% of the profits after deduction of 
depreciations, the legal and statutory reserve, and the 
distribution of profits less than 5% of the capital on the 
shareholders and th e manpower, unless the statutes of the 
Cul1Ipdny fixed a higher proportion. 
The General Assembly shall fix the definite salaries, the 
allowances of attendance and the other advantages assigned 
to the members of the board of administration. Exceptionally 
of this, the fixation of the allocations, salaries and

allowances of the delegated member shall be by a decision of 
the board of administration. 
Article 89 
A person who had been subject to a penalty for a crime or 
delinquency relating to theft or abuse of trust, or forgery or 
bankruptcy or any of the penalties specified in articles 162, 
163, and 64, of the present law, cannot be a member of the 
board of administration of a shareholder company. 
Article 90 
No person can be selected as member of the board o f 
administration of a shareholder company except after he 
declares in writing his acceptance of such selection. The 
declaration should contain his age and nationality and names 
of the companies in which he exercised any work before, in 
the last three years preceding this selection with statement of 
the kind of such work. 
No person can also be selected as member of the executive 
board of a company undertaking the management or 
exploitation of a public utility except after obtaining the 
approval of the minis ter supervising the said utility or of the 
minister attending over the supervision of the organisation 
administering it. The decisions of the General Assembly or 
of the Administrative - 8oard must be notified by a registered 
letter within the succeeding 15 days of the issue of the 
decision of the minister. The lapse of 30 days from the date 
of receipt of the notification without expression of any 
objection to the appointment, is to be deemed analogous to a 
conclusive approval. 
Article 91 
The members of th e board of administration must be in 
possession of a number of the shares of the company, of a 
value not less than the limit specified in the statutes of the 
company, provided that this limit be not less than what is 
prescribed in the executive regulation. Recourse, in this 
respect should be made to the prices on which transactions 
are conducted in the stock exchange or to the value of the 
nominal shares if the company's shares have not been 
recorded in the said exchange. Shares of guarantee of the 
moral pe rsonality of the board member are to be presented 
from the said moral personality. 
Nevertheless, it is allowed to prescribe in the statutes of the 
company, the adjunction of two members, at most, of experts

to the board of administration who do not fulfil l the limit of 
ownership alluded to. However, contrary documents 
presented on account of application of the provisions of this 
article are to be void and not probative. 
The aforesaid limit of the shares owned by the member of 
the board of administration, or which should be presented by 
the mandator whom he represents, are to be assigned for 
guarantee of his management and they must be deposited 
within one month from the date of his selection, in one of the 
banks assigned for this purpose. The deposit of sh ares which 
are not negotiable, should continue until the expiration of the 
period of the mandate and the sanction of the budget of the 
last financial year in which he exercised his business. 
If the member does not present the security aforementioned 
in this article, his membership will be null. 
Article 92 
Cancelled As Per law No. 3/1998 
Article 93 
No delegated member is allowed to be delegated in the 
administrative board of more than one shareholder company 
ruled by this law. This prohibition is applic able on the 
chairman of the Board of Administration if he is effectively 
exercising this management, the director general or whoever 
effectively exercises it, if he is not a member of the board of 
administration is to be considered in the quality of the 
delegated member of the board of administration. However, 
no one of them is allowed to occupy the position of 
delegated member in a shareholder company in another 
company except by the approval of the General Assembly of 
each of the two companies. 
Moreover, no one in his personal quality or as representative 
of another one, is allowed to combine between the 
membership of the boards of administration of more than 
two shareholder companies falling under the rule of the law. 
This membership of anyone who contr avenes these 
provisions inboards, of administration, surpassing this 
prescribed limit, in consequence of his recent selection, will 
become null. 
Nevertheless, exceptionally from the foregoing, the 
combination between memberships in shareholder 
companies i s which the member possesses 10 % at least of

the capital shares of each of them whatever be the number of 
these companies is permissible as long as his membership is 
confined to them. 
Article 94 
Without prejudice to the exemptions accorded to 
representatives of the banks of the public sector a member of 
the board of administration of a bank exercising its activity 
in Egypt is now allowed to combine his membership in the 
board of administration of another bank or of an insurance 
company conducting activit ies in Egypt, or undertaking any 
management or advice functions in any of them. 
Article 95 
It is not permissible to any member of the board of 
administration of a company to exercise in permanent 
manner any technical or administrative work in a shareholder 
company in any way except by an authorization of the 
General Assembly of the company in which he assumes the 
membership of its board of administration. 
Article 96 
The company is not allowed to extend a monetary loan of 
any kind to any member of its bo ard of administration or to 
guarantee any loan contracted by any of them with other 
parties. 
Insurance companies are exonerated from this restriction as 
they may exercise such affairs as enter in their purpose and 
in the modes and conditions adopted by th em with the group 
of their clients, and hence they may extend loans to a 
member of its board of administration or open a credit for 
him or guarantee the loans he contracts from others. 
Before the convocation of the ordinary General Assembly by 
five days, a statement from the auditor of account should be 
placed under disposal of shareholders, for their personal 
knowledge, declaring that the loans, credits or guarantees 
mentioned in the preceding paragraph have been fulfilled in 
compliance with their provisions. 
Any contract entered into discord of the provisions of this 
article will be deemed void without prejudice to the 
company's right for claim of compensation from the 
infractor, when necessary. 
Article 97

Any member of the board of administration of t he company 
and any director in it, having an interest opposing the interest 
of the Company in any operation presentable to the board of 
administration for approval, should notify the board about it 
and record such notification in the minutes of the meeting s. 
He should not participate in the votes relating to the decision 
to be issued on this operation. 
The board of administration should inform the first General 
Assembly of the operations mentioned in the preceding 
article, before voting on the decisions. 
Article 98 
A member of the board of administration of a shareholder 
company or a director of it, is not allowed, without a special 
authorisation of its general assembly, to trade to his own 
account on that of any of the branches of activities practised 
by the company. Else the Company will be entitled to claim 
compensation from him, or to consider the operations 
practised to his private account as conducted to the company. 
Article 99 
It is not allowed to anyone of the founders of the company, 
during the five years subsequent to its foundation, or to 
anyone of the members of its board of administrative, at any 
time, to be a party in any contract of compensation to be 
presented to its board for approval, unless the General 
Assembly had approved of this acti on beforehand; any 
contract concluded in discord with the provisions of this 
article will be considered null. 
Article 100 
The board of administration or any director is not allowed to 
enter in a contract of compensation with another Company in 
which any of the members of the board or of the directors, is 
a member in its board of administration, or in its 
management; and it is equally not permitted to shareholders 
of the company to possess the major part of its capital of 
such contract is liable to nullifi cation under the provisions of 
the following paragraph. 
Any of the contracts in which the extent of harm surpasses 
one fifth of its value at the time of its conclusion will be 
void, without prejudice of the company's right for demand of 
compensation from the infractor. 
Article 101

No shareholder company is allowed to offer any subvention 
of any kind to a political party. Else the subvention will be 
null. The company is not allowed to contribute in any 
financial year, more than 7% of the average of its pr ofits 
during the precedent five years, unless such contribution is 
for social purposes for the manpower in it, or a government 
organ, or a public organisation. 
For purpose of the validity of the contribution, a decision of 
the board of administration shou ld be issued on basis of a 
permission of the General Assembly, if it surpasses L.E. 
1000. 
Article 102 
No decision issued by the General Assembly will entail the 
foreclosure of the lawsuit on Civil responsibility against the 
members of the board of admini stration on account of 
mistakes perpetrated in their exercise of activities. 
If the matter putting under responsibility had been submitted 
to the General Assembly by a decision of the board of 
administration or the auditor of accounts, the lawsuit will 
lapse after one year from the date of the decision of the 
General Assembly sanctioning the report of the board of 
administration. Nevertheless if the action imputed to the 
members of the board of administration constitutes a crime 
or delinquency, the lawsuit will not be foreclosed except by 
foreclosure of the public prosecution. 
The competent administration authority and also every 
Shareholder allowing the surrender of the lawsuit or 
depending it on a previous license of the General Assembly 
or adoption of any other measure, will be null. 
 
Third : The Auditors Of Accounts 
Article 103 
The Shareholders Company shall have one or more auditors 
of accounts fulfilling the stipulations contained in the law of 
exercise of the accountancy and auditing profession, t o be 
appointed by the General Assembly and their remuneration 
fixed by it. In case of multiplicity of auditors, they will be 
responsible jointly. In exception to this rule, the founders of 
the Company shall nominate the first auditor. 
The first auditor of the Company shall exercise his function 
until the meeting of the first General Assembly, and the

auditor nominated by the General Assembly shall carryon his 
duties from the date of his nomination up to the subsequent 
date of meeting of the Assembly and he shall audit the 
accounts of the financial year in which he is nominated. 
It is not permitted to vest the board of administration with 
the nomination of the auditor or fixing his remuneration 
without deciding a maximum. If the company has no auditor, 
at any time, for whatever reason, the board of administration 
shall take steps for immediate nomination of an auditor and 
this will be submitted to the General Assembly at its first 
meeting. 
The General Assembly may, in all cases, change the auditor 
of accoun ts on the proposal of one of its members, and in 
such case, the author of the proposal should notify the 
company with his wish and the motives of his demand, 
before the meeting of the General Assembly by at least 10 
days. The Company shall inform the audit or, forthwith, with 
the text of the demand and its motives, and the auditor may 
discuss the demand by a written note which should reach the 
company at least 3 days prior to the meeting of the General 
Assembly. The Chairman of the Board of Administration 
shall read out the auditor's note to the General Assembly, and 
the auditor may, in all cases, reply to the proposal and its 
motives, before the General Assembly taking its decision. 
Any decision taken for nomination of the auditor or his 
replacement differe ntly from the provisions of this article 
will be null. 
Article 104 
It is not permitted to combine between the function of the 
auditor and participation in the foundation of the company 
and membership of its board of administration, or working 
permanently in any technical, administrative or consultant 
duties in it. 
The auditor is not permitted to be in association with anyone 
who exercises an activity of the kind mentioned in the 
preceding paragraph, or to be an employee under his 
authority, or of relationship with him up to the fourth degree. 
Any nomination effected in discord with the preceding 
provisions of this article will be null. 
Article 105 
The auditor has, at all times, the right of examination of all 
the books, registers, and documents of the c ompany and to

demand information and explanations which he deems 
essential for the fulfillment of his duties. He is also entitled 
to check the assets and liabilities of the company and the 
board of administration is called upon to facilitate his 
mission. 
In Case, the auditor is disabled to practise his stated rights, 
he should affirm that in a written report, which he has to 
submit, to the board of administration, and to be referred to 
the General assembly, in case the board of administration 
shall not facilitate his task. 
Article 106 
The board of administration is called upon to furnish the 
auditor with a copy of the notices and data it communicates 
to the shareholders invited to attend this General Assembly. 
The auditor or whomsoever he delegates of th e accountants 
who took part in the operations of auditing with him, should 
attend the meeting of the General Assembly and to 
investigate the correction of the proceedings adopted in 
calling for the meeting. He should express his opinion on all 
what concerns his business as auditor of the company, in the 
meeting, and particularly with regard to approval of the 
budget with or without any reserves, or on its return to the, 
board of administration. 
The auditor shall read his report to the General Assembly 
and it should comprise all the data prescribed by the law and 
the executive regulation in addition to the following. 
(a) Whether the auditor has obtained all the data and 
explanations he deemed necessary for satisfactory fulfillment 
of his duty. 
(b) If he is of the opinion that the company is keeping regular 
accounts for it, and in case there are branches to it which he 
did not visit, whether he had taken cognizance of adequate 
summaries of their activities. With regard to industrial 
companies, whether they k eep accounts for the costs which 
have been found by him to be regular. 
(c) Whether the budget and the profit less accounts reviewed 
in the report are in accord with the account and summaries. 
(d) Whether, in the light of the data and explanations 
presented to him, it is his opinion that the accounts include 
all what the provisions of the law, the statutes and the 
organisation of the company prescribe, regarding all what

should be recorded in them, and the budget expresses, in 
clarity, the real financial s ituation of the company at the end 
of the financial year, and the profit and loss account soundly 
reflect the true situation of the company at the end of the 
expiring year. 
(e) Whether the inventory has been made in conformity with 
the adequate principles , and with what modifications were 
adopted on the mode of the stock -taking applied in the 
preceding year, if any. 
(f) Whether the data contained in the report of the board of 
administration alluded to in the law and the executive 
regulation are in accord with the entries in the books of the 
Company. 
(g) Whether any infractions have occurred in course of the 
financial year to the provisions of the statutes of the 
company, or of the law in a manner affecting the activity of 
the company or its financial situ ation, with indication 
whether these infractions were standing at the time of 
preparation of the budget, within limit of the data and 
indications which were available according to the provisions 
of this article. 
The auditor is to be asked about the correc tness of the data 
recorded in his report, in his quality of attorney for the group 
of shareholders, each of whom is entitled, in the meeting of 
the general assembly to discuss the auditor's report and 
demand explanations on its contents. 
Article 107 
An a uditor of accounts of a shareholder company is not 
allowed, before the lapse of three years from leaving his 
work in it to work as director, or board member, or undertake 
in permanent or provisional way, any technical, 
administrative or consultant work in the company he was 
working in. 
Any action in discord with the provisions of this article will 
be deemed null and the infractor will be obliged to refund to 
the Treasury of the State the allocations and salaries paid to 
him by the company. 
Article 108 
Without prejudice to the basic obligations of the auditor of 
accounts, it is forbidden to him to declare to the shareholders 
in the main centre of the general assembly or elsewhere, or to

other parties, the data he knew of about the company in 
course of his service, else he should be dismissed and 
subjected to payment of compensation. 
Article 109 
The auditor of accounts will be responsible in front of the 
company for compensation of the harm caused to it on 
account of the mistakes which occurred in fulfilli ng his 
duties. If the Company has more than one auditor and they 
are all parties in the mistake, they shall be jointly 
responsible, in front of the company. 
The lawsuit for Civil responsibility mentioned in the 
preceding paragraph will be foreclosed by th e lapse of one 
year from the date of meeting of the General Assembly in 
which the auditor's report was read. 
If the act imputed to the auditor involves a crime the lawsuit 
for the responsibility will not be foreclosed except on 
foreclosure of the public p rosecution. The auditor will be 
also liable to compensation of the Shareholder or other well -
intentioned parties for the harms caused by his mistake. 
 
CHAPTER 11 - COMMANDITE COMPANIES WITH 
SHARES 
Article 110 
Besides the provisions of articles 37, 77, 9 1, 92 and 93, 
commandite companies with shares are ruled by all the 
provisions of Shareholder companies in the present law, 
subject to observance of the rules contained in this chapter. 
Article 111 
The management of a commandite company with shares 
must be entrusted a joint partner or more. The act of 
foundation of the company should contain the names and 
powers of those to whom its management is entrusted. The 
position of those to whom the management is entrusted, as 
responsibility, will be analogous to that of the founders and 
of boards of administration in shareholder companies with 
reapplication of the provisions of this law. 
Article 112

Every commandite company with shares shall have a board 
of control composed of at least three of the shareholders or 
others. 
This board is entitled to demand of the directors, in the name 
of the company, the presentation of accounts on their 
administration; and, with the object of achieving this 
purpose, the books and documents of the company may be 
checked, and an i nventory of the treasury and the stocks and 
the vouchers proving the rights of the company and the 
goods extant in it may be investigated. 
Article 113 
The board of auditors is allowed to express its opinion on the 
questions presented to it by the directors of the company, and 
it may authorise the practice of the disposals which the deed 
of the company demands its approval thereof. 
Article 114 
The General Assembly of the shareholders should not 
exercise or approve the affairs relating to the dealings of the 
company with other parties, or modify the act of the 
company except by approval of the directors, unless the act 
of the company prescribes a different action. The General 
Assembly of shareholders represents them in front of the 
directors. 
Article 115 
The Company is dissolved on the decease of the partner 
charged with its management unless it is prescribed 
otherwise. If the act of the company is deplete of what 
should be effected in this case, the board of control may 
appoint a provisional director to it to undertake the urgent 
business thereof pending the meeting of the general 
assembly. The provisional director shall convoke the General 
Assembly within 15 days from his nomination, according to 
the formalities prescribed in the deed. 
The provisional m anager will only be responsible for 
accomplishing his delegation. 
 
CHAPTER 111 - LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES 
1 - THE FINANCIAL CADRE 
Article 116

The capital of the limited Company should not be less than 
the minimum fixed by the executive regulation. I t should be 
divided into equal parts, the value of each of them not less 
than LE 100 paid in full. This provision is not applicable on 
companies standing at the date of execution of the law. The 
parts and balance of the liquidation will be equally divided 
between them unless the act of the company prescribes a 
different arrangement. 
The parts are to be indivisible. If a number of owners possess 
one part, the company may put off the application of the 
rights pertaining to it, until the owners choose one of them to 
be considered single owner, in confrontation of the company. 
Article 117 
A register should be kept at the head office of the company, 
comprising all the data defined by the executive regulation. 
Every partner or any interested party other than pa rtners may 
take cognizance of this register during the office hours of the 
Company. 
In the month of January, every year, a statement of the data 
contained in the register, and of every change occurring on it 
are to be forwarded to the competent administra tive 
authority, and the data are to be published in the notice 
issued to this affect. 
The managers of the company will be jointly answerable 
with regard to any harm caused on account of incorrect 
keeping of this register or of preparation of the lists in a 
defectives manner or of incorrectness of the data recorded in 
the register or the lists. 
Article 118 
The parts may be sold in virtue of an authentic deed or an act 
the signatures in which are legalized, unless the act of 
foundation of the company presc ribes a different process. In 
such case, the rest of the partners may recover the sold part, 
on the same conditions. 
Anyone who intends to sell his part, must acquaint all the 
other partners through the directors, with the offer made to 
him. After the lap se of one month from notifying the offer, 
without any of the partners using his right for its acquisition 
the partner will be free to dispose of his part. 
If more than one partner exercises their rights for recovery of 
the part, it shall be divided betwee n them in ratio of the part

of everyone of then The part of every partner will devolve to 
his heirs. The situation of the legated party will be that of the 
heirs. The application of this article does not prejudice the 
provisions laid in article 116. 
Article 119 
If a creditor of one of the partners takes preceedings for sale 
of the part of his debtor by compulsion for recovery of his 
debt, the creditor in this case shall notify the company with 
the conditions of the sale, the time of the audience to be 
fixed, for publicising the oppositions to it. If the creditor and 
debtor do not agree with the company on the sale of the part 
it will be sold by auction. 
The decision for sale will not be executory if the company 
introduces another purchaser on the same con ditions with 
which the auction was adjudicated, within ten days from the 
date of issue of this adjudication. These provisions should be 
applied in case of the partner's bankruptcy. 
 
II - Management of the Company 
Article 120 
The company shall be managed by one or more directors 
from among the partners or others. 
The partners shall nominate the director for a limited period 
or without determination of a period. 
The managers nominated in the act of foundation of the 
Company by the partners or other ones, without a determined 
period, are to be considered as nominated for the period of 
existence of the company unless it is prescribed differently in 
the contract. 
In all cases, the manager or managers may be revoked by 
agreement of the numerical majority of the members in 
possession of three quarters of the capital. 
Article 121 
The managers of the company shall have full authority for 
representing it unless its act of foundation prescribes a 
different arrangement. The issue of any decision issued by 
the com pany restricting the authority of the managers or 
changing them, after the company is recorded in the

commercial register shall not be opposable to others except 
after five days from its record in the said register. 
The provision relating to the security of dealers with the 
company, prescribed in articles 53 to 58 of this law will be 
applicable on the limited liability companies within the 
extent in accord with their nature. 
Article 122 
The situation of the managers with regard to responsibility 
will be the same as that of members of boards of 
administration of shareholder companies. The executive 
regulation will define the conditions to be fulfilled by the 
managers. 
If the management is assigned to a sole person, it is 
imperative on him to inform the as sembly of all partners, of 
every discord between his interests and that of the company 
in any of the operations he intends to effect for the purpose 
of authorising the operation or adoption of any other action 
the Assembly will deem adequate. 
Article 123 
If the number of partners is more than ten, the control must 
be entrusted to a board consisting of three of the partners at 
least. This board shall be nominated in the act of foundation 
of the company, and its members may be reelected after the 
lapse of a certain period mentioned in the act: 
The board of control may require the directors at any time to 
present reports, and it may check the books and vouchers of 
the company and to make an inventory of the Treasury and 
the financial stocks and the documents in proof of the rights 
of the company and the goods existing in it. The board 
controls the budget, the annual report and the plan of 
distribution of the profits and shall present its report in this 
respect to the assembly of shareholders, before its 
convocation by 15 days at least. 
Article 124 
The members of the board of control are not answerable 
about the actions of the directors or their results unless they 
were conscious of the mistakes which occurred in them and 
they evaded the mention of these mist akes in their report 
presented to the group of shareholders. 
Article 125

Partners other than the directors in companies in which there 
is no control board of the joint partners will assume the 
control afforded to the joint partners in joint stock 
companies. 
Article 126 
The decisions in a General Assembly are to be taken on a 
majority of votes unless the law or contract stipulates 
otherwise. 
Every part will have a vote even if it is differently prescribed 
in the contract. Absent partners may vote in wri ting or 
delegate substitutes for them for attending the General 
Assembly by special mandate, unless the deed of the 
company enacts otherwise. 
The convocation of the General Assembly and its debates 
will be effected according to the rules laid down with re gard 
to shareholder companies. 
Article 127 
The modification of the act of the company or the increase of 
its capital or its decrease can only be effected in virtue of a 
numerical majority of partners possessing three quarters of 
the capital unless the de ed of the company prescribes 
something else. 
Article 128 
The provisions relating to the auditor of accounts and 
affecting the stock taking and the budget in shareholder 
companies are applicable in limited liability companies. The 
budget shall include in particular, and on partners and those 
of partners on it. 
The budget shall be lodged after 15 days of its preparation, in 
the office of commercial registration and any interested party 
may demand taking knowledge of it. 
3 - Dissolution of the Company 
Article 129 
In case of loss of half the capital of the company, the 
directors are required to submit to the General Assembly an 
order for dissolution of the Company. It is requisite for the 
issue of an order of dissolution that the majority needed for 
the modification of the company's act be available.

If the loss attains three quarters of the capital, partners in 
possession of a quarter of the capital may demand the 
dissolution. 
If the loss entails the decrease of the capital below the limit 
prescribed by the executive regulation, any interested party 
may demand the dissolution of the company. 
 
PART III - INCORPORATION AND CHANGE OF THE 
FORM OF THE COMPANY. 
1 - I N C O R P O R A T I O N 
Article 130 
It is allowable, in virtue of a decision of the relevan t 
minister, to permit shareholder, and commandite companies 
of the two kinds, and the limited liability companies, and the 
joint stock companies whether Egyptian or foreign, 
exercising their main activities in Egypt, to be incorporated 
in Egyptian sharehol der companies or to create with such 
companies a new Egyptian Company, to be considered 
analogous to incorporated companies in the application of 
the provisions of this law, as branches, agencies, or 
foundations of these companies. 
The executive regulation defines the method of evaluation of 
the assets of the companies seeking incorporation and the 
processes and forms and conditions of incorporation. 
Article 131 
In the issue of shares given as counterpart of the capital of 
the incorporated company, menti on is to be made of the 
assets of each of the incorporating companies and those 
incorporated in them 
Article 132 
The Company incorporated in, or the Company resulting 
from the incorporation is to be considered successor to the 
incorporated Company and is legally substituted to it in its 
assets or liabilities within limit of what is agreed on in the act 
of incorporation without harm to the rights of creditors. 
Article 133

The shares of the company emanating from the incorporation 
or the shares issued as counterpart of the capital of the 
incorporated company may become negotiable directly on 
their issue. 
Article 134 
The incorporated companies and their shareholders, as well 
as the companies incorporated in, and the resultant company 
are to be exempted fr om all taxes and duties due on account 
of this incorporation. 
Article 135 
Without prejudice to the provisions of article 130, the 
incorporation may be effected by a decision of the 
extraordinary general assembly of both the incorporated and 
incorporating companies, or the group of partners possessing 
the majority of the capital. 
Shareholders who contested the decision of incorporation in 
the meeting or who did not attend in it for a plausible cause 
may demand extradition from the company and recovery of 
the value of their shares by a written demand which should 
reach the company within 30 days from the date of 
publicising the decision of incorporation. The executive 
regulation indicates the other forms and procedures of this 
demand, and the mode of deciding on it. 
The value of the shares or parts will be decided according to 
agreement or by the Courts, Consideration being taken of the 
current value of all the assets of the company. 
The uncontested value of the shares or parts disposed of is to 
be settled to their owners before completion of the 
formalities of the incorporation. The Courts will decide the 
compensations due to the concerned parties, if there is a 
justification for it. 
The decided amounts will have a priority on all the standing 
assets of the Company. 
 
2 - Change of the Form of the Company 
Article 136 
Vue legal form of the company of limited liability with 
shares or the commandite company may be changed by a 
decision issued by the extraordinary general assembly, or the

group of partners, with a majority of three quarters of the 
capital, as the case may be. 
The change may be effected in observance of the 
proceedings and forms of foundation of the company to 
which the change will be made, in limit of the provisions of 
the executive regulation to this effect. 
The change of the form of the company should not entail 
prejudice of the rights of its creditors. The shareholders, 
partners, or those who contested the decision for change or 
who did not attend the meeting on which the decisions was 
taken on account of a plausible cause, may demand 
extradition from the company under the conditions and forms 
defined in article 135. Companies the change of the legal 
form of which is affected and the partners in them are 
exempted from all taxes and duties due on account of the 
change of form of the company. 
PART IV - Liquidation of the Company 
Article 137 
Every company after its dissolution is considered to be in a 
state of liquidation. 
The liquidation should take place in compliance with the 
terms of t he present law unless its statutes or act prescribes 
other terms. 
Article 138 
The company shall conserve, during the period of its 
liquidation its moral personality within the extent required by 
the proceedings of liquidation. The term ( under liquidatio n) 
is to be added to the title of the company, and its organs will 
remain standing during the period of liquidation, but its 
powers will be confined to the affairs which are not in the 
competence of the liquidators. 
Article 139 
The General Assembly will nominate one or more liquidators 
and fix their remunerations, and their nomination will be 
from the shareholders, partners or others. 
In case a sentence is issued ordering the dissolution or 
invalidity of the status of the company, the Court shall 
indicate the mode of liquidation and will nominate the 
liquidator and fix his remuneration.

The activity of the liquidator does not end on the decease of 
partners, or publicising their bankruptcy or inability to pay or 
practice of seizures on them, even if the l iquidator is 
appointed on their part. 
Article 140 
The name of the liquidator and the partners' agreement on 
the mode of liquidation, or the sentence issued in this respect 
will be published in the commercial register and in the 
companies magazines, and t he liquidator shall fulfill the 
formalities of publicity. 
No protest against third parties on the nomination of the 
liquidator or the mode of liquidation except starting from the 
date of publicity in the Commercial Register. 
Article 141 
The revocation of the liquidator should be affected according 
to the procedure of his nomination. 
The Court may at the demand of a shareholder or partner and 
for plausible reasons, decide the revocation of the liquidator. 
Every decision or sentence revoking the liquidato r should 
comprise the nomination of another in his place. 
The revocation of the liquidator will be published in the 
Commercial register and in the Companies magazine, and it 
will not be opposable to third parties except from the date of 
publicity in the Commercial Register. 
Article 142 
The liquidator, directly after his nomination and in 
agreement with the board of administration or the directors, 
shall make a stocktaking of all the assets and liabilities of the 
company and draw a detailed list of them a nd a budget to be 
subscribed by the liquidator, and the directors or the 
administrative board members. The board of administration 
or 1the directors shall present their account to the liquidator 
and shall deliver to him the funds of the company and its 
books and vouchers. 
The liquidator shall hold a register for record of the works 
regarding the liquidation, and the holding of this register will 
be in compliance with the provisions of the law on 
commercial registers. 
Article 143

The liquidator shall exci te all what is needful for 
conservation of the funds and rights of the company. He 
should take all actions needful for acquistion of all the 
company's rights from others. Nevertheless the partners 
should not be claimed the remainder of their parts except i f 
the works of liquidation necessitate this, subject to 
observance of equality among them. 
The liquidator shall deposit the amounts he collects, in a 
bank to the account of the company under liquidation, this 
deposit shall be within 24 hours from the time of reception. 
Article 144 
The liquidator is not allowed to start on new business except 
if they are requisite for previous affairs. If he conducts new 
works not needed by the liquidation, he shall be responsible 
in these works on all his assets and if t he liquidators are 
numerous, their responsibility will be a joint one. 
The liquidator is not allowed to sell the assets of the 
company in block except by a permission of the General 
Assembly or partners as the case may be. 
Article 145 
The liquidator sha ll fulfill all the duties requisite for the 
liquidation, and in particular: 
1) Paying off all the debts on the company. 
2) Sale of the assets of the company whether moveable or 
immovable properties, by public auction or in any other 
manner unless it is i ndicated in the document of nomination 
of the liquidator that the sale should be effected in a specific 
manner. 
3) Representing the Company in front of the Courts and 
acceptance of compromise. 
Article 146 
If there are numerous liquidators, their acts wi ll not be sound 
except if they are conducted by their joint agreement unless 
it is indicated otherwise in the order of their appointment. 
This condition is not opposable to others, except from the 
date of its publicity in the commercial register. 
Article 147

The company is bound by every disposal the liquidator 
fulfils under its name if it is needed for the business of 
liquidation even if it surpasses the restrictions included in the 
authority of the liquidator or if the liquidator uti1ises the 
subscription of the company to his personal account unless 
those who contracted with the liquidator are ill-intentioned. 
Article 148 
Any debt arising from the works of liquidation shall be paid 
from the assets of the company, with priority on other debts. 
Article 149 
The remuneration of the liquidator will be defined in the act 
of his nomination; else it is to be determined by the Court. 
Article 150 
The liquidator must terminate the liquidation in the period 
fixed for it in the document of his nomination. If th is period 
is not fixed, every shareholder or partner may put up the 
matter before the Court, for fixation of the period in which 
the liquidation should be ended. 
The period decided for the liquidation may be prolonged by a 
decision of the General Assembly or the Group of partners 
after taking knowledge of a report of the liquidator 
mentioning the reasons which impeded the completion of the 
liquidation in the period fixed for it. 
If the period of liquidation is fixed by the Court, it cannot be 
prolonged except by an order from it. 
Article 151 The liquidator shall present to the General 
Assembly or to the group of partners, a provisional account 
on the works of the liquidation. He should respond to all 
what the shareholders or partners may demand informatio n 
or data, in a manner not causing harm to the interest of the 
company and not conducing to delay of the business of the 
liquidation. 
Article 152 
The liquidator shall present to the General Assembly or to 
the group of partners a final account on the busi ness of the 
liquidation. This business is to be concluded by ratification 
of the final account. The liquidator shall publicise the 
termination of the liquidation in the commercial register and 
in the company’s magazine. No protest on others can be

made by the termination of the liquidation except from the 
date of publicising this in the Commercial register. The 
liquidator shall after termination of the liquidation, demand 
the radiation of the Company from the Commercial Register. 
Article 153 
The books and vouchers of the company are to be conserved 
during 10 years from the date of its radiation from the 
Commercial register, in the office of the register within the 
perimeter of which the main centre of the company is 
situated, unless the General Assembly or the group of 
partners designate another place for conservation of the 
books and vouchers. 
Article 154 
The liquidator will be responsible in front of the company if 
he mishandled its affairs during the period of the 1iquidat 
ion. He shall also be respons ible for compensation of the 
harm caused to the Shareholders or partners or others by 
reason of his mistakes. 
 
P A R T V 
1 - Control 
Article 155 
The relevant administrative authority assumes the charge of 
execution of the provisions contained in this l aw and its 
executive regulation Technical staff of grade III at least in 
this section and others defined by the executive regulation 
and those chosen by a decision of the relevant minister 
jointly with the minister of Justice shall have the quality of 
judiciary officers for proof of crimes taking place in 
contravention of this law and its executive regulation. 
In this connection they are empowered to investigate the 
registers, books and vouchers in the office of the company or 
elsewhere, and the directors and responsible persons or its 
management must present to them all the data, extracts and 
copies of documents they demand for this object. 
The relevant administrative authority must examine any 
complaint of the shareholders or others, with regard to 
execution of the provisions of the law and its executive 
regulation.

Article 156 
The staff of the relevant administrative authority alluded to 
in the preceding article will have the right to attend the 
meetings of the General Assemblies of the Companies by a 
special Authorisation of the Chief of these Authorities, but 
shall not have the right to express their views or to vote. 
Their charge will be only to record the actions of the 
meetings and expressing their remarks in writing. 
The executive regulation lays down the manner and 
measures of attendance of the delegates of the administrative 
authority and the modes of expression of remarks and what is 
to be followed on them. 
Article 157 
The shareholders are entitled to take knowledge of the 
registers of the company and obtain copies and extracts there 
from and from its vouchers, according to the conditions and 
procedures defined by the executive regulation. Any 
interested party may demand inspection of the registers, 
documents, minutes, and reports relating to the company, at 
the premises of its relevant administrative authority, and take 
extracts there from, legalised by the said authority. 
This demand may be refused if it is of a nature to cause harm 
to the company or to others through publicising these data, or 
to any other organisation. The executive regulation indicates 
the forms for this and determines the dues for such 
investigation of the data, within an amount of L.E.100. 
 
I N S E P E C T I O N 
Article 158 
The competent administrative authority, and the partners 
possessing at least 20 % of the capital of banks, and 10 % of 
the capital of shareholder companies are entitled to demand 
the inspection of the company with regard to any grave 
infractions imputed to the members of the administrative 
boards, o r to the auditors of accounts, in the fulfillment of 
their functions prescribed by the law or system, if any 
reasons are extant demonstrating the existence of such 
infractions. 
The request shall be submitted to the Minister of Economy, 
and a committee sha ll be formed by a decree of the Minister

to consider and examine the request, and an auditor from the 
Central Audit Agency shall be joining its membership. 
The demand should contain all the evidences demonstrating 
that the applicants have serious motives justifying the 
adoption of this measure. The demand presented by the 
shareholders must be coupled with the deposit of the shares 
in possession of the applicants, which deposit shall continue 
until a decision is taken on the demand. 
The committee, after hearing the assertions of the applicants, 
the members of the board of administration, and accounts 
auditors, in a closed sitting, may order the inspection of the 
actions and registers of the company and may delegate one 
or several experts for this purpose, w ith fixing the amount 
the shareholders who demanded the inspection are required 
to deposit, to the account of these expenses, if it is found that 
there is a necessity for taking this measure before the 
meeting of the General Assembly. The inspection should not 
start before the deposit of this amount. 
The permit for inspection should also specify the 
examination of any documents or registers in another 
company which is on relations with the company subject to 
inspection. 
Article 159 
The members of adminis trative boards, and the staff and 
controllers of accounts of the company are required to put 
under the inspection, all the books, documents and vouchers 
concerning the company, and which they are charged with 
keeping, or are entitled to obtain them, and to impart to them 
all the data and explanations needed. Whoever refuses to 
respond to what the person charged with the inspection 
demands in this respect, will be liable to the penalties set 
forth in article 163. 
The person charged with the inspection may q uestion any 
person who has any relation with the affairs of the company 
after tendering of oath. 
Article 160 
Whoever is charged with inspection must present a detailed 
report on his mission to the committee within the period 
mentioned in the decision, or within one month at most from 
the deposit of the amount mentioned in paragraph 4 of article 
158.

If it appears to the committee that what the applicants for 
inspection have attributed to the members of the board of 
administration or to the controllers of accounts is incorrect, it 
may order the publicity of the report in full or part of it, or 
the publicity of its results in a daily newspaper, and the 
applicants for the inspection will sustain its expenses, 
without discharge of their respsonsibi1ity for th e 
compensation, if there is any motive for it. 
If the committee discovers the correctness of the infractions 
attributed to the members of the board of administration or 
the controllers, it shall order the exercise of prompt measures 
and call of the General Assembly urgently. 
Its meeting in this case will be headed by the Chief of the 
relevant administrative authority or one of the staff of this 
organisation to be selected by the committee. 
The company, in such case, will support the costs and 
expenses of the inspection and will have the right of recourse 
against the perpetrator of the infraction, for these expenses 
and costs in addition to the compensations. 
The General Assembly may decide the dismissal of the 
members of the board of administration and b ringing an 
action against them for their responsibility. Its decision will 
be sound if approved by the partners possessing half the 
capital after deduction of the shares of those the dismissal of 
whom of the members of this assembly, is under 
consideration. The Assembly may equally decide the change 
of the auditors of accounts and bringing an action on them 
for responsibility. 
Members of the board of administration dismissed cannot be 
reelected during a period of five years from the date of the 
decision of their dismissal. 
 
3 - Penalties 
Article 161 Without prejudice to the rights of demand of 
compensation where due, any disposal or negotiation or 
decision issued in discord with the rules prescribed by this 
law or issued by the administrative board or ass emblies of 
shareholder companies instituted in discord with its 
provisions, will be deemed null, without prejudice to the 
rights of well-intentioned persons. 
In case of multiplicity of those to whom the causes of nullity 
may be attributed, their responsib ility for compensation will

be joint among them. Interested persons will not be allowed 
to bring an action for nullity after the lapse of one year from 
the date of their knowledge of the decision discordant with 
the law. 
Article 162 
Without prejudice to severer penalties enacted by other laws, 
anyone of the following personalities will be liable to a 
penalty of imprisonment during a period not less than two 
years, and to a fine not less than L.E. 2000 and not more than 
L.E.10000 which the infractor should personally support, or 
by one of these two penalties: 
1) Whoever mentions intentionally in publications on the 
issue of shares or of stocks, false data, or contradictory to 
this law or its executive regulation and whoever subscribes 
these publications, in execution of these provisions. 
2) Any founder in the act of the limited liability company 
who presents false declarations relating to distribution of the 
parts of the capital between the partners or regarding the 
acquittal of their values although he is aware of the reality of 
the situation. 
3) Whoever of the partners effects the valuation of parts in 
kind at more than their real value by fraud. 
4) Any founder or manager who despatches an invitation to 
the public for subscription in stocks of whatever kind to the 
account of a limited liability company, or who presents such 
stocks for subscription in the company. 
5) Any member of a board of administration who distributes 
profits or interests contrarily to the provisions of this law or 
the statutes of th e company, and any controller who 
sanctions such distribution. 
6) Any controller or worker in his office who intentionally 
makes a false report on the result of his verification of such 
facts in the report he presents to the General Assembly 
according to the provisions of this law. 
7) Any public official who discloses a secret, known by 
reason of his work or intentionally mentions in his report 
incorrect data or purposely records or omits, in such report, 
facts affecting its result. 
8) Whoever forges in the registers of the company or 
purposely records in them unsound statements or prepares or

presents reports to the General Assembly containing false 
statements which were of a nature that affected the decision 
of the assembly. 
Article 163 
Without prejud ice to severer penalties prescribed by other 
laws, any person who commits any of the following acts, will 
be penalised by a fine not less than L.E. 2000 and not more 
than L.E.10000. 
1) Whoever disposes of foundation parts, or shares 
differently to the rules laid down by the present law. 
2) Whoever is nominated as member in the board of 
administration of a shareholder company or a delegated 
member for its management or continues to be in its 
membership or be appointed controller in it in discord of the 
prohibitions contained in this law, and every member 
delegated for administration in contravention of the 
prohibitions enacted by this law, and every delegated 
member for administration in a company in which any of 
these contraventions occur. 
3) Any member o f a board of administration who is in 
default in the presentation of the shares concerning his 
eligibility for administration in the manner prescribed in this 
law, in course of 60 days from the date of his notification of 
the decision of his appointment, and also who is in default of 
presentation of the declarations he is bound to present, or 
who willfully omits some of the data which the board of 
administration should make reports thereon, and also any 
member of the board of administration who records in t he 
reports of the company unsound data or willfully withholds 
their mention. 
4) Whoever contravenes the provisions regarding the ratio of 
Egyptian boards of administration in Companies or of their 
workmen or of wages. 
5) Whoever contravenes any of the co mpulsive provisions in 
this law. 
6) Whoever willfully abstains from enabling the controllers 
or staff of the competent administrative authority delegated 
for consultation of the books or documents which they are 
entitled to investigate according to the provisions of this law. 
7) Whoever of the members of the board of administration 
willfully impedes the convocation of the General Assembly.

Article 164 
In case of recurrence or abstention from elimination of the 
contraventions upon which a final sentence has been issued 
in condemnations, the fines set forth in the two preceding 
articles will be duplicated, in their minimum and maximum 
levels. 
 
PA RT VI - Branches and Offices of Foreign Companies in 
Egypt 
1 - Branches of Foreign Companies and Analogous 
Establishments. 
Article 165 
The provisions of this part are applicable on foreign 
companies which do not have in Egypt the main centre of 
their administration or of these principal activities, but have 
in Egypt a centre for exercise of business whether as b ranch 
or industrial establishment or management office, or some 
other branch. Agencies managed by such companies in 
Egypt will be analogous to branches, agencies, or offices 
referred to in the fo11owing cases: 
a) If the Foreign company is managing them it self or 
entrusting the direction to its staff. 
b) If the agent has authority for conclusion of contracts on 
behalf of the company. 
c) If the agent has in his hands goods or products of the 
company of which he undertakes the disposal according to 
instructions of the company or in execution of its contracts. 
Commercial agents, in other than the preceding cases will 
not be considered as branches of foreign companies. 
Article 166 
Foreign Companies which have centers in Egypt for exercise 
of business, must observe the formalities of commercial 
registration laid down, and should present to the sections 
mentioned in the executive regulation, the requisite data and 
the documents prescribed by it. 
The branches of foreign companies must have an auditor of 
accounts on the conditions and forms defined in this 
regulation.

Article 167 
Foreign Companies having a centre in Egypt for practice of 
business must not appoint a director for the branch or the 
industrial Establishment or a managing office, or other 
persons t hat do not fulfill the conditions mentioned in 
articles 89,177,178,179 and 180 of this law. 
Article 168 
The contracts or disposals concluded by the local manager of 
the branch of the foreign company, or who is in his position 
are obliging to the company, as long as such contracts or 
actions are in the scope of the normal actions for 
management of the affairs of the branch. 
This provision does not benefit the one who effectively 
knows or was capable of knowing, by his position in the 
company or his relati on with it, that the local manager is not 
concerned with making such disposal or contract. 
Article 169 
The executive regulation lays down the forms of 
presentation, by the branches of foreign companies or their 
similars, of their budgets to the relevant administrative 
authority and the documents and papers which should be 
annexed to the budget. 
Article 170 
The branches of foreign companies and their similars must 
abide by the provisions relating to workers, specified in 
articles 174, 175 and 176 of this law. Workers in these 
branches will have a share in the profits in the manner 
exposed in the executive regulation according to article 41 of 
this law. 
Article 171 
The executive regulation indicates the manners in which the 
branches of foreign companies and their Simi liars may 
publish the name of the foreign company and all other 
relevant data thereof. 
Article 172 
The executive regulation indicates the provisions applicable 
to branches of foreign companies and their similars in case of

liquidation of the foreign company or cessation of practice of 
the activities of its branches in Egypt. 
2_ Representative offices and their analogies 
Article 173 
Foreign companies may create in Egypt representative 
offices, or contracts, or services or technical or sci entific 
offices, etc. the purposes of which are confined to study of 
the markets, or potentials of production without exercise of 
any commercial activity including that of commercial agents. 
A special register is created for registration of these offices at 
the relevant administrative authority; the record in this 
register, and radiation from it, are to be according to the 
formalities and conditions laid down by the executive 
regulation. 
The regulation further fixes the duties of registration which 
should not exceed L.E. 1000, and the scope of control to be 
exercised by the relevant administrative authority on these 
offices. 
 
PART VII 
Conclusive Provisions 
1- Provisions concerning the workers in the Company 
The number of Egyptian workers in Egypt in th e Companies 
ruled by the present law should not be less than 90 % of the 
manpower in it, and their earnings not less than 80 % of the 
total of wages paid by the company to its workers. 
Article 175 
The number of professional and administrative Egyptian 
workers in the shareholder companies working in Egypt must 
not be less than 75 % of the total of workers in them and the 
total of their earnings not less than 70% of the total of the 
wages and salaries paid by the company to these categories 
of workers. 
The provision of the preceding paragraph is applicable on 
commandite companies with shares, and limited liability 
companies, the capitals of which exceed L.E. 5000.

Article 176 
Exceptionally from the provisions of the two preceding 
articles, the competent m inister may authorise the 
nomination of foreign workers or advisers or specialists in 
case of inexistence of qualified Egyptians, and for the 
periods decided by him, and they do not enter in the account 
of the ratios laid down. 
The minister or whoever is vested by him shall statute on the 
demands presented by the relevant authorities in which 
exceptions are to be made, within two months from the date 
of the demand. The non -issue of a reply is to be considered 
an approval of the exception during the period of one year, or 
the period expressed in the demand, whichever is shorter. 
 
2_ Restrictions relating to workers in the State and members 
of the Representative Organisation 
Article 177 
No one is allowed to combine between work in Government 
or public, or private organisation, and membership of 
administration board in a shareholder company or participate 
in its foundation or casual work in it, in any function of 
consultation, whether this is against a salary or without it, 
unless he is a representative to such sectors. 
Exceptionally from the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph and of other preventive stipulations in special 
laws, it is permissible to license a person for participation in 
the formation of a shareholder company, by special 
permission of the minister under whose authority the said 
person is working. He may also practice other works 
mentioned in the preceding paragraph provided that this 
involves his presidency of the administrative councilor 
undertaking the charge of the delegated member; and this is 
to be by special permission of the prime minister. 
In all cases, the permission will only be issued after 
investigation of the matter and ascertaining the absence of 
any connection between the duties of the person and the 
business of the company or influence on it, and provided that 
such permission does not conflict with the duties of the post 
and their laudable fulfillment. 
Article 178

It is not allowed, without special permission of the prime 
minister, to the minister or to any occupant of one of the 
superior posts of administration, to act as director or member 
of the board of administration, or to assume a permanent 
technical or administrative or consultative work in any 
company to which the government extends special 
advantages through subsi dies or guarantees or which is tied 
by contracts or acts of monopoly, or contracts of public 
works or concessions of a public utility, or of exploitation of 
a source of natural or mineral wealth, before the lapse of 
three years from the date of his leaving the service of the 
government or of his previous function. 
Any action in contravention of the aforesaid paragraph will 
be deemed null and the infractor will be compelled to refund 
all the allocations or remunerations be obtained, to the 
Treasury of the State. 
Article 179 
No member of the People's Assembly or of the consultative 
council is allowed to be appointed in the administrative 
board of a share hold company unless he is one of its 
founders or owner of 10 % at least of the shares of its capital, 
or has accomplished such membership before his election. 
Any action in contravention of this article will be null and 
the infractor will be obliged to refund all what be received to 
the Treasury of the State. 
Article 180 
No member in any local popular cou ncil in his personal 
quality or as representative of others is allowed to act as 
director or board member or casually undertake any 
consultative work in a shareholder company exploiting any 
public utility in the perimeter of the council in which he is 
member, or which is connected with the local or people's 
council by a contract of monopoly or public works. Any 
action in contravention with this article will be null be 
obliged to refund all what he received from the company to 
the Public Treasury. 
3- Diverse provisions and transitory article 
Article 181 
The Government must have two representatives at least in 
the Administrative boards of the company to which it 
guarantees a minimum of profits.

The nomination of these representatives will be by a decision 
of the prime minister on the proposal of the competent 
minister. 
Article 182 
Shareholder Companies, and commandite companies with 
shares and limited liability companies shall modify their 
statutes and acts of constitution in accord with the provisions 
of this law and its executive regulation and the objective 
model contracts in this respect, within a maximum period of 
one year from enforcement of this law. 
The modification will be according to the procedures enacted 
by this law and its executive regulati on, and the competent, 
Administrative Authority will present these modifications to 
the committee mentioned in article 18 for taking such action 
on them as it deems requisite. 
The executive regulation will define the formalities of 
execution and no duties will be due on account of the 
modifications mentioned. 
Article 183 
Companies ruled by the provisions of law No. 43/1974 
relating to investment of Arab and Foreign Fund will 
continue to enjoy the provisions related to them by the said 
law. 
Companies founded under the provisions of this law with a 
capital paid in local currency and belonging to Egyptians in 
any of the domains specified in article 3 of law No.43/1974 
referred to, will enjoy the advantages, exemptions and 
guarantee mentioned in it; with the exception of articles 21 
and 22 of it, subject to the approval of the General 
Organisation of Investment and free zones, and according to 
the rules and formalities promulgated by it. 
The advantages, exemptions and guarantees alluded to are 
applicable to companies ruled by it and standing on the date 
of its enforcement within limit of the innovations in it, 
through increase of their capitals, in form of constructions or 
projects in the domains specified in article 3 of law 
No.43/1974, subject to approval o f the General Organisation 
for investment and free zones. 
Article 184

The branches of foreign companies and their similars and the 
representative offices or connections and others are required 
to concord their forms in compliance with the provisions of 
this law within three months from the date of its 
enforcement.